- [Common network protocols](#common-network-protocols)
  - [Overview of network protocols](#overview-of-network-protocols)
  - [Three categories of network protocols](#three-categories-of-network-protocols)
    - [Communication protocols](#communication-protocols)
    - [Management Protocols](#management-protocols)
    - [Security Protocols](#security-protocols)
- [Additional network protocols](#additional-network-protocols)
  - [Network Address Translation](#network-address-translation)
  - [Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol](#dynamic-host-configuration-protocol)
  - [Address Resolution Protocol](#address-resolution-protocol)
  - [Telnet](#telnet)
  - [Secure shell](#secure-shell)
  - [Post office protocol](#post-office-protocol)
  - [Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)](#internet-message-access-protocol-imap)
  - [Simple Mail Transfer Protocol](#simple-mail-transfer-protocol)
  - [Protocols and port numbers](#protocols-and-port-numbers)
- [The evolution of wireless security protocols](#the-evolution-of-wireless-security-protocols)
  - [Introduction to wireless communication protocols](#introduction-to-wireless-communication-protocols)
    - [Wired Equivalent Privacy](#wired-equivalent-privacy)
    - [Wi-Fi Protected Access](#wi-fi-protected-access)
  - [WPA2 \& WPA3](#wpa2--wpa3)
    - [WPA2](#wpa2)
    - [Personal](#personal)
    - [Enterprise](#enterprise)
    - [WPA3](#wpa3)
- [Subnetting and CIDR](#subnetting-and-cidr)
  - [Overview of subnetting](#overview-of-subnetting)
  - [Classless Inter-Domain Routing notation for subnetting](#classless-inter-domain-routing-notation-for-subnetting)
  - [Security benefits of subnetting](#security-benefits-of-subnetting)
- [Virtual networks and privacy](#virtual-networks-and-privacy)
  - [Common network protocols](#common-network-protocols-1)
  - [Wi-Fi](#wi-fi)
  - [Network security tools and practices](#network-security-tools-and-practices)
    - [Firewalls](#firewalls)
    - [Proxy servers](#proxy-servers)
    - [Virtual Private Networks (VPN)](#virtual-private-networks-vpn)
- [VPN protocols: Wireguard and IPSec](#vpn-protocols-wireguard-and-ipsec)
  - [Remote access and site-to-site VPNs](#remote-access-and-site-to-site-vpns)
  - [WireGuard VPN vs. IPSec VPN](#wireguard-vpn-vs-ipsec-vpn)
  - [WireGuard VPN](#wireguard-vpn)
  - [IPSec VPN](#ipsec-vpn)
- [Quiz: Module 2 Challenge](#quiz-module-2-challenge)
  - [Questions Set 1](#questions-set-1)
  - [Answers Set 1](#answers-set-1)
  - [Questions Set 2](#questions-set-2)
  - [Answers Set 2](#answers-set-2)

# Common network protocols

| Protocol      | Port Number | Transport Protocol | Encrypted/Unencrypted | Description                                                   |
| ------------- | ----------- | ------------------ | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| HTTP          | 80          | TCP                | Unencrypted           | Hypertext Transfer Protocol (unsecured web traffic)           |
| HTTPS         | 443         | TCP                | Encrypted             | Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure                            |
| FTP (Data)    | 20          | TCP                | Unencrypted           | File Transfer Protocol - Data Transfer                        |
| FTP (Control) | 21          | TCP                | Unencrypted           | File Transfer Protocol - Control Commands                     |
| SSH           | 22          | TCP                | Encrypted             | Secure Shell                                                  |
| Telnet        | 23          | TCP                | Unencrypted           | Unsecured remote login                                        |
| SMTP          | 25          | TCP                | Unencrypted           | Simple Mail Transfer Protocol                                 |
| SMTPS         | 465         | TCP                | Encrypted             | Simple Mail Transfer Protocol Secure                          |
| DNS           | 53          | TCP/UDP            | Unencrypted           | Domain Name System (TCP for zone transfers, UDP for queries)  |
| DHCP (Server) | 67          | UDP                | Unencrypted           | Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol - Server                  |
| DHCP (Client) | 68          | UDP                | Unencrypted           | Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol - Client                  |
| TFTP          | 69          | UDP                | Unencrypted           | Trivial File Transfer Protocol                                |
| POP3          | 110         | TCP                | Unencrypted           | Post Office Protocol v3                                       |
| POP3S         | 995         | TCP                | Encrypted             | Post Office Protocol Secure                                   |
| IMAP          | 143         | TCP                | Unencrypted           | Internet Message Access Protocol                              |
| IMAPS         | 993         | TCP                | Encrypted             | Internet Message Access Protocol Secure                       |
| SNMP          | 161         | UDP                | Unencrypted           | Simple Network Management Protocol                            |
| RDP           | 3389        | TCP                | Encrypted             | Remote Desktop Protocol                                       |
| LDAP          | 389         | TCP                | Unencrypted           | Lightweight Directory Access Protocol                         |
| LDAPS         | 636         | TCP                | Encrypted             | LDAP Secure                                                   |
| NTP           | 123         | UDP                | Unencrypted           | Network Time Protocol                                         |
| SFTP          | 22          | TCP                | Encrypted             | Secure File Transfer Protocol (via SSH)                       |
| ARP           | N/A         | None               | N/A                   | Address Resolution Protocol (operates at the Data Link layer) |

## Overview of network protocols

A **network protocol** is a set of rules used by two or more devices on a network to describe the order of delivery and the structure of data. Network protocols serve as instructions that come with the information in the data packet. These instructions tell the receiving device what to do with the data. Protocols are like a common language that allows devices all across the world to communicate with and understand each other.

Even though network protocols perform an essential function in network communication, security analysts should still understand their associated security implications. Some protocols have vulnerabilities that malicious actors exploit. For example, a nefarious actor could use the Domain Name System (DNS) protocol, which resolves web addresses to IP addresses, to divert traffic from a legitimate website to a malicious website containing malware. You’ll learn more about this topic in upcoming course materials.

## Three categories of network protocols

Network protocols can be divided into three main categories: communication protocols, management protocols, and security protocols. There are dozens of different network protocols, but you don’t need to memorize all of them for an entry-level security analyst role. However, it’s important for you to know the ones listed in this reading.

### Communication protocols

Communication protocols govern the exchange of information in network transmission. They dictate how the data is transmitted between devices and the timing of the communication. They also include methods to recover data lost in transit. Here are a few of them.

- **Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)** is an internet communication protocol that allows two devices to form a connection and stream data. TCP uses a three-way handshake process. First, the device sends a synchronize (SYN) request to a server. Then the server responds with a SYN/ACK packet to acknowledge receipt of the device's request. Once the server receives the final ACK packet from the device, a TCP connection is established. In the TCP/IP model, TCP occurs at the transport layer.
- **User Datagram Protocol (UDP)** is a connectionless protocol that does not establish a connection between devices before a transmission. This makes it less reliable than TCP. But it also means that it works well for transmissions that need to get to their destination quickly. For example, one use of UDP is for sending DNS requests to local DNS servers. In the TCP/IP model, UDP occurs at the transport layer.
- **Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)** is an application layer protocol that provides a method of communication between clients and website servers. HTTP uses port 80. HTTP is considered insecure, so it is being replaced on most websites by a secure version, called HTTPS that uses encryption from SSL/TLS for communication. However, there are still many websites that use the insecure HTTP protocol. In the TCP/IP model, HTTP occurs at the application layer.
- **Domain Name System (DNS)** is a protocol that translates internet domain names into IP addresses. When a client computer wishes to access a website domain using their internet browser, a query is sent to a dedicated DNS server. The DNS server then looks up the IP address that corresponds to the website domain. DNS normally uses UDP on port 53. However, if the DNS reply to a request is large, it will switch to using the TCP protocol. In the TCP/IP model, DNS occurs at the application layer.

### Management Protocols

The next category of network protocols is management protocols. Management protocols are used for monitoring and managing activity on a network. They include protocols for error reporting and optimizing performance on the network.

- **Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)** is a network protocol used for monitoring and managing devices on a network. SNMP can reset a password on a network device or change its baseline configuration. It can also send requests to network devices for a report on how much of the network’s bandwidth is being used up. In the TCP/IP model, SNMP occurs at the application layer.
- **Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)** is an internet protocol used by devices to tell each other about data transmission errors across the network. ICMP is used by a receiving device to send a report to the sending device about the data transmission. ICMP is commonly used as a quick way to troubleshoot network connectivity and latency by issuing the “ping” command on a Linux operating system. In the TCP/IP model, ICMP occurs at the internet layer.

### Security Protocols

Security protocols are network protocols that ensure that data is sent and received securely across a network. Security protocols use encryption algorithms to protect data in transit. Below are some common security protocols.

- **Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)** is a network protocol that provides a secure method of communication between clients and website servers. HTTPS is a secure version of HTTP that uses secure sockets layer/transport layer security (SSL/TLS) encryption on all transmissions so that malicious actors cannot read the information contained. HTTPS uses port 443. In the TCP/IP model, HTTPS occurs at the application layer.
- **Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP)** is a secure protocol used to transfer files from one device to another over a network. SFTP uses secure shell (SSH), typically through TCP port 22. SSH uses Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) and other types of encryption to ensure that unintended recipients cannot intercept the transmissions. In the TCP/IP model, SFTP occurs at the application layer. SFTP is used often with cloud storage. Every time a user uploads or downloads a file from cloud storage, the file is transferred using the SFTP protocol.

**Note**: The encryption protocols mentioned do not conceal the source or destination IP address of network traffic. This means a malicious actor can still learn some basic information about the network traffic if they intercept it.

# Additional network protocols

## Network Address Translation

The devices on your local home or office network each have a private IP address that they use to communicate directly with each other. However, in order for the devices with private IP addresses to communicate with the public internet, they need to have a single public IP address that represents all devices on the LAN to the public. For outgoing messages, the router can replace a private source IP address with its public IP address and perform the reverse operation for responses. This process is known as Network Address Translation (NAT) and it generally requires a router or firewall to be specifically configured to perform NAT. NAT is a part of layer 2 (internet layer) and layer 3 (transport layer) of the TCP/IP model.

|        Private IP Addresses        |        Public IP Addresses         |
| :--------------------------------: | :--------------------------------: |
|       Assigned by the router       |      Assigned by ISP and IANA      |
| Unique only within private network | Unique address in global internet  |
|           No cost to use           | Costs to lease a public IP address |
|          Address ranges:           |     Assignable address ranges:     |
|      10.0.0.0-10.255.255.255       |       1.0.0.0-9.255.255.255        |
|     172.16.0.0-172.31.255.255      |      11.0.0.0-126.255.255.255      |
|    192.168.0.0-192.168.255.255     |      128.0.0.0-172.15.255.255      |
|                                    |     172.32.0.0-192.167.255.255     |
|                                    |    192.169.0.0-233.255.255.255     |

## Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is in the management family of network protocols. DHCP is an application layer protocol used on a network to configure devices. It works with the router to assign a unique IP address to each device and provide the addresses of the appropriate DNS server and default gateway for each device. DHCP servers operate on UDP port 67 while DHCP clients operate on UDP port 68.

## Address Resolution Protocol

By now, you are familiar with IP and MAC addresses. You’ve learned that each device on a network has a public IP address, a private IP address, and a MAC address that identify it on the network. A device’s IP address may change over time, but its MAC address is permanent because it is unique to a device's network interface card. The MAC address is used to communicate with devices within the same network, but sometimes, the MAC address is unknown. This is why the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is needed. ARP is mainly a network access layer protocol in the TCP/IP model used to translate the IP addresses that are found in data packets into the MAC address of the hardware device.

Each device on the network performs ARP and keeps track of matching IP and MAC addresses in an ARP cache. ARP does not have a specific port number since it is a layer 2 protocol and port numbers are associated with the layer 7 application layer.

## Telnet

Telnet is an application layer protocol that is used to connect with a remote system. Telnet sends all information in clear text. It uses command line prompts to control another device similar to secure shell (SSH), but Telnet is not as secure as SSH. Telnet can be used to connect to local or remote devices and uses TCP port 23.

## Secure shell

Secure shell protocol (SSH) is used to create a secure connection with a remote system. This application layer protocol provides an alternative for secure authentication and encrypted communication. SSH operates over the TCP port 22 and is a replacement for less secure protocols, such as Telnet.

## Post office protocol

Post office protocol (POP) is an application layer (layer 4 of the TCP/IP model) protocol used to manage and retrieve email from a mail server. POP3 is the most commonly used version of POP. Many organizations have a dedicated mail server on the network that handles incoming and outgoing mail for users on the network. User devices will send requests to the remote mail server and download email messages locally. If you have ever refreshed your email application and had new emails populate in your inbox, you are experiencing POP and internet message access protocol (IMAP) in action. Unencrypted, plaintext authentication uses TCP/UDP port 110 and encrypted emails use Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS) over TCP/UDP port 995. When using POP, mail has to finish downloading on a local device before it can be read. After downloading, the mail may or may not be deleted from the mail server, so it does not guarantee that a user can sync the same email across multiple devices.

## Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)

IMAP is used for incoming email. It downloads the headers of emails and the message content. The content also remains on the email server, which allows users to access their email from multiple devices. IMAP uses TCP port 143 for unencrypted email and TCP port 993 over the TLS protocol. Using IMAP allows users to partially read email before it is finished downloading. Since the mail is kept on the mail server, it allows a user to sync emails across multiple devices.

## Simple Mail Transfer Protocol

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is used to transmit and route email from the sender to the recipient’s address. SMTP works with Message Transfer Agent (MTA) software, which searches DNS servers to resolve email addresses to IP addresses, to ensure emails reach their intended destination. SMTP uses TCP/UDP port 25 for unencrypted emails and TCP/UDP port 587 using TLS for encrypted emails. The TCP port 25 is often used by high-volume spam. SMTP helps to filter out spam by regulating how many emails a source can send at a time.

## Protocols and port numbers

Remember that port numbers are used by network devices to determine what should be done with the information contained in each data packet once they reach their destination. Firewalls can filter out unwanted traffic based on port numbers. For example, an organization may configure a firewall to only allow access to TCP port 995 (POP3) by IP addresses belonging to the organization.

As a security analyst, you will need to know about many of the protocols and port numbers mentioned in this course. They may be used to determine your technical knowledge in interviews, so it’s a good idea to memorize them. You will also learn about new protocols on the job in a security position.

# The evolution of wireless security protocols

In the early days of the internet, all internet communication happened across physical cables. It wasn’t until the mid-1980s that authorities in the United States designated a spectrum of radio wave frequencies that could be used without a license, so there was more opportunity for the internet to expand.

In the late 1990s and early 2000s, technologies were developed to send and receive data over radio. Today, users access wireless internet through laptops, smart phones, tablets, and desktops. Smart devices, like thermostats, door locks, and security cameras, also use wireless internet to communicate with each other and with services on the internet.

## Introduction to wireless communication protocols

Many people today refer to wireless internet as Wi-Fi. **Wi-Fi** refers to a set of standards that define communication for wireless LANs. Wi-Fi is a marketing term commissioned by the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance (WECA). WECA has since renamed their organization Wi-Fi Alliance.

Wi-Fi standards and protocols are based on the 802.11 family of internet communication standards determined by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). So, as a security analyst, you might also see Wi-Fi referred to as IEEE 802.11.

Wi-Fi communications are secured by wireless networking protocols. Wireless security protocols have evolved over the years, helping to identify and resolve vulnerabilities with more advanced wireless technologies.

In this reading, you will learn about the evolution of wireless security protocols from WEP to WPA, WPA2, and WPA3. You’ll also learn how the Wireless Application Protocol was used for mobile internet communications.

### Wired Equivalent Privacy

Wired equivalent privacy (WEP) is a wireless security protocol designed to provide users with the same level of privacy on wireless network connections as they have on wired network connections. WEP was developed in 1999 and is the oldest of the wireless security standards.

WEP is largely out of use today, but security analysts should still understand WEP in case they encounter it. For example, a network router might have used WEP as the default security protocol and the network administrator never changed it. Or, devices on a network might be too old to support newer Wi-Fi security protocols. Nevertheless, a malicious actor could potentially break the WEP encryption, so it’s now considered a high-risk security protocol.

### Wi-Fi Protected Access

Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) was developed in 2003 to improve upon WEP, address the security issues that it presented, and replace it. WPA was always intended to be a transitional measure so backwards compatibility could be established with older hardware.

The flaws with WEP were in the protocol itself and how the encryption was used. WPA addressed this weakness by using a protocol called Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP). WPA encryption algorithm uses larger secret keys than WEPs, making it more difficult to guess the key by trial and error.

WPA also includes a message integrity check that includes a message authentication tag with each transmission. If a malicious actor attempts to alter the transmission in any way or resend at another time, WPA’s message integrity check will identify the attack and reject the transmission.

Despite the security improvements of WPA, it still has vulnerabilities. Malicious actors can use a key reinstallation attack (or KRACK attack) to decrypt transmissions using WPA. Attackers can insert themselves in the WPA authentication handshake process and insert a new encryption key instead of the dynamic one assigned by WPA. If they set the new key to all zeros, it is as if the transmission is not encrypted at all.

Because of this significant vulnerability, WPA was replaced with an updated version of the protocol called WPA2.

## WPA2 & WPA3

### WPA2

The second version of Wi-Fi Protected Access—known as WPA2—was released in 2004. WPA2 improves upon WPA by using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES). WPA2 also improves upon WPA’s use of TKIP. WPA2 uses the Counter Mode Cipher Block Chain Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP), which provides encapsulation and ensures message authentication and integrity. Because of the strength of WPA2, it is considered the security standard for all Wi-Fi transmissions today. WPA2, like its predecessor, is vulnerable to KRACK attacks. This led to the development of WPA3 in 2018.

### Personal

WPA2 personal mode is best suited for home networks for a variety of reasons. It is easy to implement, initial setup takes less time for personal than enterprise version. The global passphrase for WPA2 personal version needs to be applied to each individual computer and access point in a network. This makes it ideal for home networks, but unmanageable for organizations.

### Enterprise

WPA2 enterprise mode works best for business applications. It provides the necessary security for wireless networks in business settings. The initial setup is more complicated than WPA2 personal mode, but enterprise mode offers individualized and centralized control over the Wi-Fi access to a business network. This means that network administrators can grant or remove user access to a network at any time. Users never have access to encryption keys, this prevents potential attackers from recovering network keys on individual computers.

### WPA3

WPA3 is a secure Wi-Fi protocol and is growing in usage as more WPA3 compatible devices are released. These are the key differences between WPA2 and WPA3:

- WPA3 addresses the authentication handshake vulnerability to KRACK attacks, which is present in WPA2.
- WPA3 uses Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE), a password-authenticated, cipher-key-sharing agreement. This prevents attackers from downloading data from wireless network connections to their systems to attempt to decode it.
- WPA3 has increased encryption to make passwords more secure by using 128-bit encryption, with WPA3-Enterprise mode offering optional 192-bit encryption.

# Subnetting and CIDR

## Overview of subnetting

**Subnetting** is the subdivision of a network into logical groups called subnets. It works like a network inside a network. Subnetting divides up a network address range into smaller subnets within the network. These smaller subnets form based on the IP addresses and network mask of the devices on the network. Subnetting creates a network of devices to function as their own network. This makes the network more efficient and can also be used to create security zones. If devices on the same subnet communicate with each other, the switch changes the transmissions to stay on the same subnet, improving speed and efficiency of the communications.

## Classless Inter-Domain Routing notation for subnetting

Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) is a method of assigning subnet masks to IP addresses to create a subnet. Classless addressing replaces classful addressing. Classful addressing was used in the 1980s as a system of grouping IP addresses into classes (Class A to Class E). Each class included a limited number of IP addresses, which were depleted as the number of devices connecting to the internet outgrew the classful range in the 1990s. Classless CIDR addressing expanded the number of available IPv4 addresses.

CIDR allows cybersecurity professionals to segment classful networks into smaller chunks. CIDR IP addresses are formatted like IPv4 addresses, but they include a slash (“/’”) followed by a number at the end of the address, This extra number is called the IP network prefix. For example, a regular IPv4 address uses the 198.51.100.0 format, whereas a CIDR IP address would include the IP network prefix at the end of the address, 198.51.100.0/24. This CIDR address encompasses all IP addresses between 198.51.100.0 and 198.51.100.255. The system of CIDR addressing reduces the number of entries in routing tables and provides more available IP addresses within networks. You can try converting CIDR to IPv4 addresses and vice versa through an online conversion tool, like [IPAddressGuide](https://www.ipaddressguide.com/cidr), for practice and to better understand this concept.

**Note**: You may learn more about CIDR during your career, but it won't be covered in any additional depth in this certificate program. For now, you only need a basic understanding of this concept.

## Security benefits of subnetting

Subnetting allows network professionals and analysts to create a network within their own network without requesting another network IP address from their internet service provider. This process uses network bandwidth more efficiently and improves network performance. Subnetting is one component of creating isolated subnetworks through physical isolation, routing configuration, and firewalls.

# Virtual networks and privacy

## Common network protocols

Network protocols are used to direct traffic to the correct device and service depending on the kind of communication being performed by the devices on the network. Protocols are the rules used by all network devices that provide a mutually agreed upon foundation for how to transfer data across a network.

There are three main categories of network protocols: communication protocols, management protocols, and security protocols.

1. Communication protocols are used to establish connections between servers. Examples include TCP, UDP, and Simple Mail Transfer 2/Protocol (SMTP), which provides a framework for email communication.
2. Management protocols are used to troubleshoot network issues. One example is the Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP).
3. Security protocols provide encryption for data in transit. Examples include IPSec and SSL/TLS.

Some other commonly used protocols are:

1. HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP). HTTP is an application layer communication protocol. This allows the browser and the web server to communicate with one another.
2. Domain Name System (DNS). DNS is an application layer protocol that translates, or maps, host names to IP addresses.
3. Address Resolution Protocol (ARP). ARP is a network layer communication protocol that maps IP addresses to physical machines or a MAC address recognized on the local area network.

## Wi-Fi

This section of the course also introduced various wireless security protocols, including WEP, WPA, WPA2, and WPA3. WPA3 encrypts traffic with the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) cipher as it travels from your device to the wireless access point. WPA2 and WPA3 offer two modes: personal and enterprise. Personal mode is best suited for home networks while enterprise mode is generally utilized for business networks and applications.

## Network security tools and practices

### Firewalls

Previously, you learned that firewalls are network virtual appliances (NVAs) or hardware devices that inspect and can filter network traffic before it’s permitted to enter the private network. Traditional firewalls are configured with rules that tell it what types of data packets are allowed based on the port number and IP address of the data packet.

There are two main categories of firewalls.

- **Stateless**: A class of firewall that operates based on predefined rules and does not keep track of information from data packets
- **Stateful**: A class of firewall that keeps track of information passing through it and proactively filters out threats. Unlike stateless firewalls, which require rules to be configured in two directions, a stateful firewall only requires a rule in one direction. This is because it uses a "state table" to track connections, so it can match return traffic to an existing session

Next generation firewalls (NGFWs) are the most technologically advanced firewall protection. They exceed the security offered by stateful firewalls because they include deep packet inspection (a kind of packet sniffing that examines data packets and takes actions if threats exist) and intrusion prevention features that detect security threats and notify firewall administrators. NGFWs can inspect traffic at the application layer of the TCP/IP model and are typically application aware. Unlike traditional firewalls that block traffic based on IP address and ports, NGFWs rules can be configured to block or allow traffic based on the application. Some NGFWs have additional features like Malware Sandboxing, Network Anti-Virus, and URL and DNS Filtering.

### Proxy servers

A proxy server is another way to add security to your private network. Proxy servers utilize network address translation (NAT) to serve as a barrier between clients on the network and external threats. Forward proxies handle queries from internal clients when they access resources external to the network. Reverse proxies function opposite of forward proxies; they handle requests from external systems to services on the internal network. Some proxy servers can also be configured with rules, like a firewall. For example, you can create filters to block websites identified as containing malware.

### Virtual Private Networks (VPN)

A VPN is a service that encrypts data in transit and disguises your IP address. VPNs use a process called encapsulation. Encapsulation wraps your unencrypted data in an encrypted data packet, which allows your data to be sent across the public network while remaining anonymous. Enterprises and other organizations use VPNs to help protect communications from users’ devices to corporate resources. Some of these resources include servers or virtual machines that host business applications. Individuals also use VPNs to increase personal privacy. VPNs protect user privacy by concealing personal information, including IP addresses, from external servers. A reputable VPN also minimizes its own access to user internet activity by using strong encryption and other security measures. Organizations are increasingly using a combination of VPN and SD-WAN capabilities to secure their networks. A software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN) is a virtual WAN service that allows organizations to securely connect users to applications across multiple locations and over large geographical distances.

# VPN protocols: Wireguard and IPSec

A VPN, or virtual private network, is a network security service that changes your public IP address and hides your virtual location so that you can keep your data private when you’re using a public network like the internet. VPNs provide a server that acts as a gateway between a computer and the internet. This server creates a path similar to a virtual tunnel that hides the computer’s IP address and encrypts the data in transit to the internet. The main purpose of a VPN is to create a secure connection between a computer and a network. Additionally, a VPN allows trusted connections to be established on non-trusted networks. VPN protocols determine how the secure network tunnel is formed. Different VPN providers provide different VPN protocols.

This reading will cover the differences between remote access and site-to-site VPNs, and two VPN protocols: WireGuard VPN and IPSec VPN. A VPN protocol is similar to a network protocol: It’s a set of rules or instructions that will determine how data moves between endpoints. An endpoint is any device connected on a network. Some examples of endpoints include computers, mobile devices, and servers.

## Remote access and site-to-site VPNs

Individual users use remote access VPNs to establish a connection between a personal device and a VPN server. Remote access VPNs encrypt data sent or received through a personal device. The connection between the user and the remote access VPN is established through the internet.

Enterprises use site-to-site VPNs largely to extend their network to other networks and locations. This is particularly useful for organizations that have many offices across the globe. IPSec is commonly used in site-to-site VPNs to create an encrypted tunnel between the primary network and the remote network. One disadvantage of site-to-site VPNs is how complex they can be to configure and manage compared to remote VPNs.

## WireGuard VPN vs. IPSec VPN

WireGuard and IPSec are two different VPN protocols used to encrypt traffic over a secure network tunnel. The majority of VPN providers offer a variety of options for VPN protocols, such as WireGuard or IPSec. Ultimately, choosing between IPSec and WireGuard depends on many factors, including connection speeds, compatibility with existing network infrastructure, and business or individual needs.

## WireGuard VPN

WireGuard is a high-speed VPN protocol, with advanced encryption, to protect users when they are accessing the internet. It’s designed to be simple to set up and maintain. WireGuard can be used for both site-to-site connection and client-server connections. WireGuard is relatively newer than IPSec, and is used by many people due to the fact that its download speed is enhanced by using fewer lines of code. WireGuard is also open source, which makes it easier for users to deploy and debug. This protocol is useful for processes that require faster download speeds, such as streaming video content or downloading large files.

## IPSec VPN

IPSec is another VPN protocol that may be used to set up VPNs. Most VPN providers use IPSec to encrypt and authenticate data packets in order to establish secure, encrypted connections. Since IPSec is one of the earlier VPN protocols, many operating systems support IPSec from VPN providers.

Although IPSec and WireGuard are both VPN protocols, IPSec is older and more complex than WireGuard. Some clients may prefer IPSec due to its longer history of use, extensive security testing, and widespread adoption. However, others may prefer WireGuard because of its potential for better performance and simpler configuration.

# Quiz: Module 2 Challenge

## Questions Set 1

1. What network protocol helps data get to the right place by determining the MAC address of the next router or device on its path?
   1. Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS)
   2. Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
   3. Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)
   4. Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)
2. Fill in the blank: The **\_\_\_** maintains Wi-Fi standards.
   1. IEEE 802.11
   2. Transmission control protocol (TCP)
   3. Domain name system (DNS)
   4. WiFi protected access (WPA)
3. A firewall administrator installs a firewall function to either block or allow certain port numbers to limit unwanted communication. What function does this scenario describe?
   1. Location masking
   2. Organizing data packets
   3. Using cloud-based firewalls
   4. Port filtering
4. Fill in the blank: A \_\_\_\_ firewall can connect to cloud-based threat intelligence services and quickly update against emerging cyber threats
   1. stateless
   2. documented
   3. stateful
   4. next generation firewall (NGFW)
5. A security professional sets up a security measure to allow employees to work from home securely while having access to internal network resources. What does this scenario describe?
   1. Address resolution protocol (ARP)
   2. Firewall
   3. Cloud service provider (CSP)
   4. Virtual private network (VPN)
6. Which of the following does encapsulation protect?
   1. public IP addresses
   2. data in transit
   3. cryptographic keys
   4. proxy servers
7. Fill in the blank. A controlled zone protects a company's internal network from a(n)\_\_\_ security zone.
   1. restricted
   2. internal network
   3. uncontrolled
   4. demilitarized
8. What network zone includes public facing services such as web servers, proxy servers, and DNS servers?
   1. Restricted zone
   2. Demilitarized zone
   3. Uncontrolled zone
   4. Virtual private network
9. A security analyst implements a proxy server to secure internal networks. What are some of the proxy server’s primary functions?
   1. Use public IP addresses that are different from the rest on the private network
   2. Temporarily stores data that is frequently requested by external servers
   3. Determine whether requests to connect to a website are allowed
   4. Divide the network into segments to maintain privacy within corporate groups
10. Which of the following statements accurately describe forward and reverse proxy servers? Select three answers.
    1. Forward proxy servers regulate and restrict a person’s access to the internet.
    2. Reverse proxy servers work by hiding a user’s IP address and approving all outgoing requests.
    3. Reverse proxy servers accept traffic from external parties, approve it, then forward it to internal servers.
    4. Forward proxy servers receive outgoing traffic from an employee, approve it, then forward it to its destination on the internet.

## Answers Set 1

1. 3
2. 1
3. 4
4. 4
5. 4
6. 2
7. 3
8. 2
9. 1, 2 & 3
10. 1, 3 & 4

## Questions Set 2

1. What internet communication protocol allows two devices to form a connection and stream data?
   1. Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS)
   2. Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)
   3. Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
   4. Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)
2. Fill in the blank: The **\_\_\_** maintains Wi-Fi standards.
   1. IEEE 802.11
   2. Transmission control protocol (TCP)
   3. Domain name system (DNS)
   4. WiFi protected access (WPA)
3. A firewall administrator installs a firewall function to either block or allow certain port numbers to limit unwanted communication. What function does this scenario describe?
   1. Using cloud-based firewalls
   2. Port filtering
   3. Organizing data packets
   4. Location masking
4. Fill in the blank: A \_\_\_\_ firewall can connect to cloud-based threat intelligence services and quickly update against emerging cyber threats
   1. documented
   2. stateless
   3. next generation firewall (NGFW)
   4. stateful
5. What network security service masks a device’s virtual location to keep data private while using a public network?
   1. Network segmenter
   2. Virtual private network (VPN)
   3. Domain name system (DNS)
   4. Cloud service provider (CSP)
6. Fill in the blank: VPN services perform **\_** to protect sensitive data by wrapping it in other data packets.
   1. packet sniffing
   2. encapsulation
   3. network segmentation
   4. transmission control
7. Fill in the blank. A controlled zone protects a company's internal network from a(n)\_\_\_ security zone.
   1. restricted
   2. demilitarized
   3. internal network
   4. uncontrolled
8. What network zone acts as a network perimeter to the internal network by isolating servers that are exposed to the internet?
   1. Virtual private network
   2. Demilitarized zone
   3. Uncontrolled zone
   4. Restricted zone
9. Fill in the blank: A **\_** fulfills the requests of its clients by forwarding them to other servers
   1. virtual private network (VPN)
   2. firewall
   3. router
   4. proxy server
10. Which of the following statements accurately describe forward and reverse proxy servers? Select three answers.
    1. Reverse proxy servers work by hiding a user’s IP address and approving all outgoing requests.
    2. Forward proxy servers receive outgoing traffic from an employee, approve it, then forward it to its destination on the internet.
    3. Forward proxy servers regulate and restrict a person’s access to the internet.
    4. Reverse proxy servers accept traffic from external parties, approve it, then forward it to internal servers.

## Answers Set 2

1. 3
2. 1
3. 2
4. 3
5. 2
6. 2
7. 4
8. 2
9. 4
10. 2, 3 & 4
