- [How controls, frameworks, and compliance are related](#how-controls-frameworks-and-compliance-are-related)
- [Specific controls, frameworks, and compliance](#specific-controls-frameworks-and-compliance)
  - [The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)](#the-federal-energy-regulatory-commission---north-american-electric-reliability-corporation-ferc-nerc)
  - [The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®)](#the-federal-risk-and-authorization-management-program-fedramp)
  - [Center for Internet Security (CIS®)](#center-for-internet-security-cis)
  - [General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)](#general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr)
  - [Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)](#payment-card-industry-data-security-standard-pci-dss)
  - [The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)](#the-health-insurance-portability-and-accountability-act-hipaa)
  - [International Organization for Standardization (ISO)](#international-organization-for-standardization-iso)
  - [System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2)](#system-and-organizations-controls-soc-type-1-soc-type-2)
  - [United States Presidential Executive Order 14028](#united-states-presidential-executive-order-14028)
- [Ethical concerns and laws related to counterattacks](#ethical-concerns-and-laws-related-to-counterattacks)
  - [United States standpoint on counterattacks](#united-states-standpoint-on-counterattacks)
  - [International standpoint on counterattacks](#international-standpoint-on-counterattacks)
- [Ethical principles and methodologies](#ethical-principles-and-methodologies)
- [Quiz: Module 3 Challenge](#quiz-module-3-challenge)
  - [Questions](#questions)
  - [Answers](#answers)

# How controls, frameworks, and compliance are related

- The **confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad** is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies.
- CIA are the three foundational principles used by cybersecurity professionals to establish appropriate controls that mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
- As you may recall, **security controls** are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. So they are used alongside frameworks to ensure that security goals and processes are implemented correctly and that organizations meet regulatory compliance requirements.
- **Security frameworks** are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy. They have four core components:

  1. Identifying and documenting security goals
  2. Setting guidelines to achieve security goals
  3. Implementing strong security processes
  4. Monitoring and communicating results

- **Compliance** is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations.

# Specific controls, frameworks, and compliance

- The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a U.S.-based agency that develops multiple voluntary compliance frameworks that organizations worldwide can use to help manage risk. The more aligned an organization is with compliance, the lower the risk.

- Examples of frameworks include the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) and the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF).
- **Note**: Specifications and guidelines can change depending on the type of organization you work for.
- In addition to the [NIST CSF](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework) and [NIST RMF](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/risk-management/about-rmf), there are several other controls, frameworks, and compliance standards that are important for security professionals to be familiar with to help keep organizations and the people they serve safe.

## The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)

- FERC-NERC is a regulation that applies to organizations that work with electricity or that are involved with the U.S. and North American power grid. These types of organizations have an obligation to prepare for, mitigate, and report any potential security incident that can negatively affect the power grid. They are also legally required to adhere to the Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Reliability Standards defined by the FERC.

## The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP<sup>®</sup>)

- FedRAMP is a U.S. federal government program that standardizes security assessment, authorization, monitoring, and handling of cloud services and product offerings. Its purpose is to provide consistency across the government sector and third-party cloud providers.

## Center for Internet Security (CIS<sup>®</sup>)

- CIS is a nonprofit with multiple areas of emphasis. It provides a set of controls that can be used to safeguard systems and networks against attacks. Its purpose is to help organizations establish a better plan of defense. CIS also provides actionable controls that security professionals may follow if a security incident occurs.

## General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

- GDPR is a European Union (E.U.) general data regulation that protects the processing of E.U. residents’ data and their right to privacy in and out of E.U. territory. For example, if an organization is not being transparent about the data they are holding about an E.U. citizen and why they are holding that data, this is an infringement that can result in a fine to the organization. Additionally, if a breach occurs and an E.U. citizen’s data is compromised, they must be informed. The affected organization has 72 hours to notify the E.U. citizen about the breach.

## Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)

- PCI DSS is an international security standard meant to ensure that organizations storing, accepting, processing, and transmitting credit card information do so in a secure environment. The objective of this compliance standard is to reduce credit card fraud.

## The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)

- HIPAA is a U.S. federal law established in 1996 to protect patients' health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. It is governed by three rules:

  1. Privacy
  2. Security
  3. Breach notification

- Organizations that store patient data have a legal obligation to inform patients of a breach because if patients' **Protected Health Information (PHI)** is exposed, it can lead to identity theft and insurance fraud. PHI relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, whether it’s a plan of care or payments for care. Along with understanding HIPAA as a law, security professionals also need to be familiar with the Health Information Trust Alliance (HITRUST<sup>®</sup>), which is a security framework and assurance program that helps institutions meet HIPAA compliance.

## International Organization for Standardization (ISO)

- ISO was created to establish international standards related to technology, manufacturing, and management across borders. It helps organizations improve their processes and procedures for staff retention, planning, waste, and services.

## System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2)

- The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants® (AICPA) auditing standards board developed this standard. The SOC1 and SOC2 are a series of reports that focus on an organization's user access policies at different organizational levels such as:

  1. Associate
  2. Supervisor
  3. Manager
  4. Executive
  5. Vendor
  6. Others

- They are used to assess an organization’s financial compliance and levels of risk. They also cover confidentiality, privacy, integrity, availability, security, and overall data safety. Control failures in these areas can lead to fraud.
- **Pro tip**: There are a number of regulations that are frequently revised. You are encouraged to keep up-to-date with changes and explore more frameworks, controls, and compliance. Two suggestions to research: the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

## United States Presidential Executive Order 14028

- On May 12, 2021, President Joe Biden released an executive order related to improving the nation’s cybersecurity to remediate the increase in threat actor activity. Remediation efforts are directed toward federal agencies and third parties with ties to U.S. [critical infrastructure](<https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/critical_infrastructure#:~:text=Definition(s)%3A,any%20combination%20of%20those%20matters.>). For additional information, review the [Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/12/executive-order-on-improving-the-nations-cybersecurity/).

# Ethical concerns and laws related to counterattacks

## United States standpoint on counterattacks

- In the U.S., deploying a counterattack on a threat actor is illegal because of laws like the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015, among others. You can only defend. The act of counterattacking in the U.S. is perceived as an act of vigilantism. A vigilante is a person who is not a member of law enforcement who decides to stop a crime on their own. And because threat actors are criminals, counterattacks can lead to further escalation of the attack, which can cause even more damage and harm. Lastly, if the threat actor in question is a state-sponsored hacktivist, a counterattack can lead to serious international implications. A **hacktivist** is a person who uses hacking to achieve a political goal. The political goal may be to promote social change or civil disobedience.
- For these reasons, the only individuals in the U.S. who are allowed to counterattack are approved employees of the federal government or military personnel.

## International standpoint on counterattacks

- The International Court of Justice (ICJ), which updates its guidance regularly, states that a person or group can counterattack if:
  - The counterattack will only affect the party that attacked first.
  - The counterattack is a direct communication asking the initial attacker to stop.
  - The counterattack does not escalate the situation.
  - The counterattack effects can be reversed.
- Organizations typically do not counterattack because the above scenarios and parameters are hard to measure. There is a lot of uncertainty dictating what is and is not lawful, and at times negative outcomes are very difficult to control. Counterattack actions generally lead to a worse outcome, especially when you are not an experienced professional in the field.
- To learn more about specific scenarios and ethical concerns from an international perspective, review updates provided in the [Tallinn Manual online](https://ccdcoe.org/research/tallinn-manual/).

# Ethical principles and methodologies

- Because counterattacks are generally disapproved of or illegal, the security realm has created frameworks and controls—such as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad and others discussed earlier in the program—to address issues of confidentiality, privacy protections, and laws. To better understand the relationship between these issues and the ethical obligations of cybersecurity professionals, review the following key concepts as they relate to using ethics to protect organizations and the people they serve.
- **Confidentiality** means that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. Confidentiality as it relates to professional ethics means that there needs to be a high level of respect for privacy to safeguard private assets and data.
- **Privacy protection** means safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use. Personally identifiable information (PII) and sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII) are types of personal data that can cause people harm if they are stolen. **PII** data is any information used to infer an individual's identity, like their name and phone number. **SPII** data is a specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines, including social security numbers and credit card numbers. To effectively safeguard PII and SPII data, security professionals hold an ethical obligation to secure private information, identify security vulnerabilities, manage organizational risks, and align security with business goals.
- **Laws** are rules that are recognized by a community and enforced by a governing entity. As a security professional, you will have an ethical obligation to protect your organization, its internal infrastructure, and the people involved with the organization. To do this:
  - You must remain unbiased and conduct your work honestly, responsibly, and with the highest respect for the law.
  - Be transparent and just, and rely on evidence.
  - Ensure that you are consistently invested in the work you are doing, so you can appropriately and ethically address issues that arise.
  - Stay informed and strive to advance your skills, so you can contribute to the betterment of the cyber landscape.
- As an example, consider the **Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)**, which is a U.S. federal law established to protect patients' health information, also known as PHI, or protected health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. So, as a security professional, you might help ensure that the organization you work for adheres to both its legal and ethical obligation to inform patients of a breach if their health care data is exposed.

# Quiz: Module 3 Challenge

## Questions

1. What are some of the primary purposes of security frameworks? Select three answers.
   1. Safeguarding specific individuals
   2. Identifying security weaknesses
   3. Aligning security with business goals
   4. Securing financial information
2. Which of the following are core components of security frameworks? Select two answers.
   1. Implementing security processes
   2. Establishing regulatory compliance measures
   3. Monitoring personally identifiable information
   4. Setting guidelines to achieve security goals
3. Fill in the blank: A security professional implements encryption and multi-factor authentication (MFA) to better protect customers' private data. This is an example of using **\_**.
   1. networking regulations
   2. security controls
   3. organizational upgrades
   4. security teams
4. You are helping your security team consider risk when setting up a new software system. Using the CIA triad, you focus on integrity, availability, and what else?
   1. Confidentiality
   2. Consent
   3. Communication
   4. Conformity
5. Fill in the blank: A key aspect of the CIA triad is ensuring that only **\_** can access specific assets.
   1. social media sites
   2. internet providers
   3. authorized users
   4. business competitors
6. Which of the following statements accurately describe the NIST CSF? Select all that apply.
   1. It is a voluntary framework.
   2. It is only effective at managing long-term risk.
   3. It consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices.
   4. Its purpose is to help manage cybersecurity risk.
7. Fill in the blank: Some of the most dangerous threat actors are **\_** because they often know where to find sensitive information, can access it, and may have malicious intent.
   1. dissatisfied customers
   2. disgruntled employees
   3. senior partners
   4. past vendors
8. A security professional working at a bank is running late for a meeting. They consider saving time by leaving files on their desk that contain client account numbers. However, after thinking about company guidelines with regards to compliance, the security professional takes the time to properly store the files. Which concept does this scenario describe?
   1. Security ethics
   2. Public finance
   3. Preserving evidence
   4. Security controls
9. Which ethical principle describes safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use?
   1. Incident investigation
   2. Honesty
   3. Privacy protection
   4. Non-bias
10. Which ethical principle describes the rules that are recognized by a community and enforced by a governing entity?
    1. Protections
    2. Laws
    3. Guidelines
    4. Restrictions

## Answers

1. 2, 3 & 4
2. 1 & 4
3. 2
4. 1
5. 3
6. 1, 3 & 4
7. 2
8. 1
9. 3
10. 2
