- [An entry-level analyst’s toolkit](#an-entry-level-analysts-toolkit)
  - [Security information and event management (SIEM) tools](#security-information-and-event-management-siem-tools)
  - [Network protocol analyzers (packet sniffers)](#network-protocol-analyzers-packet-sniffers)
  - [Playbooks](#playbooks)
  - [Threat Horizon Report](#threat-horizon-report)
  - [Free Cybersecurity Services and Tools](#free-cybersecurity-services-and-tools)
- [Tools and their purposes](#tools-and-their-purposes)
  - [Web vulnerability](#web-vulnerability)
  - [Antivirus software](#antivirus-software)
  - [Intrusion detection system](#intrusion-detection-system)
  - [Encryption](#encryption)
  - [Penetration testing](#penetration-testing)
- [Portfolio projects](#portfolio-projects)
- [Quiz: Module 4 Challenge](#quiz-module-4-challenge)
  - [Questions Set 1](#questions-set-1)
  - [Answers Set 1](#answers-set-1)
  - [Questions Set 2](#questions-set-2)
  - [Answers Set 2](#answers-set-2)

# An entry-level analyst’s toolkit

## Security information and event management (SIEM) tools

- A SIEM tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. A log is a record of events that occur within an organization’s systems. Depending on the amount of data you’re working with, it could take hours or days to filter through log data on your own. SIEM tools reduce the amount of data an analyst must review by providing alerts for specific types of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.

- SIEM tools provide a series of dashboards that visually organize data into categories, allowing users to select the data they wish to analyze. Different SIEM tools have different dashboard types that display the information you have access to.

- SIEM tools also come with different hosting options, including on-premise and cloud. Organizations may choose one hosting option over another based on a security team member’s expertise. For example, because a cloud-hosted version tends to be easier to set up, use, and maintain than an on-premise version, a less experienced security team may choose this option for their organization.

## Network protocol analyzers (packet sniffers)

- A network protocol analyzer, also known as a packet sniffer, is a tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic in a network. This means that the tool keeps a record of all the data that a computer within an organization's network encounters. Later in the program, you’ll have an opportunity to practice using some common network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer) tools.

## Playbooks

- A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action, such as how to respond to a security incident. Organizations usually have multiple playbooks documenting processes and procedures for their teams to follow. Playbooks vary from one organization to the next, but they all have a similar purpose: To guide analysts through a series of steps to complete specific security-related tasks.

- For example, consider the following scenario: You are working as a security analyst for an incident response firm. You are given a case involving a small medical practice that has suffered a security breach. Your job is to help with the forensic investigation and provide evidence to a cybersecurity insurance company. They will then use your investigative findings to determine whether the medical practice will receive their insurance payout.

- In this scenario, playbooks would outline the specific actions you need to take to conduct the investigation. Playbooks also help ensure that you are following proper protocols and procedures. When working on a forensic case, there are two playbooks you might follow:
  - The first type of playbook you might consult is called the chain of custody playbook. Chain of custody is the process of documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle. As a security analyst involved in a forensic analysis, you will work with the computer data that was breached. You and the forensic team will also need to document who, what, where, and why you have the collected evidence. The evidence is your responsibility while it is in your possession. Evidence must be kept safe and tracked. Every time evidence is moved, it should be reported. This allows all parties involved to know exactly where the evidence is at all times.
  - The second playbook your team might use is called the protecting and preserving evidence playbook. Protecting and preserving evidence is the process of properly working with fragile and volatile digital evidence. As a security analyst, understanding what fragile and volatile digital evidence is, along with why there is a procedure, is critical. As you follow this playbook, you will consult the order of volatility, which is a sequence outlining the order of data that must be preserved from first to last. It prioritizes volatile data, which is data that may be lost if the device in question powers off, regardless of the reason. While conducting an investigation, improper management of digital evidence can compromise and alter that evidence. When evidence is improperly managed during an investigation, it can no longer be used. For this reason, the first priority in any investigation is to properly preserve the data. You can preserve the data by making copies and conducting your investigation using those copies.

## Threat Horizon Report

The Google Cybersecurity Action Team's [Threat Horizon Report](https://services.google.com/fh/files/blogs/gcat_threathorizons_full_sept2022.pdf) provides strategic intelligence for dealing with threats to cloud enterprise.

## Free Cybersecurity Services and Tools

The Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has a list of [Free Cybersecurity Services and Tools](https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/free-cybersecurity-services-and-tools). Review the list to learn more about open-source cybersecurity tools.

# Tools and their purposes

## Web vulnerability

- A **web vulnerability** is a unique flaw in a web application that a threat actor could exploit by using malicious code or behavior, to allow unauthorized access, data theft, and malware deployment.
- To stay up-to-date on the most critical risks to web applications, review the [Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/).

## Antivirus software

- **Antivirus software** is a software program used to prevent, detect, and eliminate malware and viruses. It is also called anti-malware. Depending on the type of antivirus software, it can scan the memory of a device to find patterns that indicate the presence of malware.

## Intrusion detection system

- An **intrusion detection system (IDS)** is an application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusions. The system scans and analyzes network packets, which carry small amounts of data through a network. The small amount of data makes the detection process easier for an IDS to identify potential threats to sensitive data. Other occurrences an IDS might detect can include theft and unauthorized access.

## Encryption

- Encryption makes data unreadable and difficult to decode for an unauthorized user; its main goal is to ensure confidentiality of private data. **Encryption** is the process of converting data from a readable format to a cryptographically encoded format. **Cryptographic encoding** means converting plaintext into secure ciphertext. **Plaintext** is unencrypted information and **secure ciphertext** is the result of encryption.

**Note**: Encoding and encryption serve different purposes. Encoding uses a public conversion algorithm to enable systems that use different data representations to share information.

## Penetration testing

**Penetration testing**, also called pen testing, is the act of participating in a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, applications, and processes. It is a thorough risk assessment that can evaluate and identify external and internal threats as well as weaknesses.

# Portfolio projects

1. Drafting a professional statement
2. Conducting a security audit
3. Analyzing network structure and security
4. Using Linux commands to manage file permissions
5. Applying filters to SQL queries
6. Identifying vulnerabilities for a small business
7. Documenting incidents with an incident handler’s journal
8. Importing and parsing a text file in a security-related scenario
9. Creating or revising a resume

- [Professional Statement Outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12fvZXSrCHs2cE9GUNkc0ypfCb77QdKVFnofQ4aBuxFU/template/preview)
- [Refine Your Professional Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uodGPtGAS247wACdtJ7ITe3BcwFL993sQy5P9_pAj48/template/preview)

# Quiz: Module 4 Challenge

## Questions Set 1

1. Which of the following statements correctly describe logs? Select two answers.
   1. A log is used as a formal guide to incident response.
   2. Security professionals use logs to query databases.
   3. Logs help identify vulnerabilities and potential security breaches.
   4. A business might log errors that occurred as a result of high network traffic.
2. Which of the following tasks can be performed using SIEM tools? Select three answers.
   1. Saving time by reducing the amount of data to be reviewed
   2. Implementing security software programs
   3. Monitoring critical activities
   4. Analyzing filtered events and patterns
3. A cybersecurity analyst needs to collect data from multiple places to analyze filtered events and patterns. What type of tool should they use?
   1. Security information and event management (SIEM)
   2. Linux operating system
   3. Playbook
   4. network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer)
4. Fill in the blank: Security professionals use **\_** to help them manage a security incident before, during, and after it has occurred.
   1. programming
   2. spreadsheets
   3. playbooks
   4. charts
5. As a security analyst, you are tasked with auditing your organization's network to identify security related issues. How might a network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer) help you perform this task?
   1. By automating tasks that reduce human error
   2. By simulating attacks on connected devices
   3. By capturing and analyzing data traffic on the network
   4. By removing malware and viruses from the network
6. What are some key benefits of programming languages? Select all that apply.
   1. They can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks.
   2. They install security hardware.
   3. They filter through data points faster than humans can working manually.
   4. They execute repetitive processes accurately.
7. A security team wants to examine logs to understand what is occurring within their systems. Why might they choose Linux to perform this task? Select two answers.
   1. It is proprietary.
   2. It is open source.
   3. It allows for text-based commands by users.
   4. It is an efficient programming language.
8. Fill in the blank: A database is a **\_** of organized data stored in a computer system.
   1. collection
   2. visualization
   3. model
   4. frame
9. What are some key benefits of using Python to perform security tasks? Select all that apply.
   1. It simplifies repetitive tasks.
   2. It helps security professionals work with high levels of detail.
   3. It automatically eliminates sensitive information.
   4. It enables security professionals to be more accurate.

## Answers Set 1

1. 3 & 4
2. 1, 3 & 4
3. 1
4. 3
5. 3
6. 1, 3 & 4
7. 2 & 3
8. 1
9. 1, 2 & 4

## Questions Set 2

1. Which of the following statements correctly describe logs? Select two answers.
   1. A business might log each time an employee signs into their computer.
   2. A log is used as a formal guide to incident response.
   3. Security professionals use logs to visualize data.
   4. A log is a record of events that occur within an organization’s systems.
2. Which of the following tasks can be performed using SIEM tools? Select three answers.
   1. Requesting security data from government agencies
   2. Providing alerts for specific types of risks and threats
   3. Collecting and analyzing data
   4. Helping security analysts identify potential breaches
3. Fill in the blank: Instead of reviewing pages and pages of logs to determine if there are any new security threats, analysts can use **\_** tools, which provide alerts for specific types of threats and risks.
   1. network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer)
   2. programming language
   3. operating system
   4. security information and event management (SIEM)
4. Fill in the blank: Security professionals use **\_** to help them manage a security incident before, during, and after it has occurred.
   1. spreadsheets
   2. programming
   3. charts
   4. playbooks
5. As a security analyst, you are monitoring network traffic and detect a large number of failed login attempts. Which of the following tools would help you investigate this incident? Select two answers.
   1. An intrusion detection system (IDS)
   2. A cryptographic encoder
   3. A network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer)
   4. An antivirus software
6. What are some key benefits of programming languages? Select all that apply.
   1. They install security hardware.
   2. They filter through data points faster than humans can working manually.
   3. They execute repetitive processes accurately.
   4. They can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks.
7. Fill in the blank: Linux relies on a(n) **\_** as the primary user interface.
   1. ciphertext
   2. command line
   3. error log
   4. dashboard
8. Fill in the blank: A database is a **\_** of organized data stored in a computer system.
   1. model
   2. frame
   3. visualization
   4. collection
9. What are some key benefits of using Python to perform security tasks? Select all that apply.
   1. It makes static data more dynamic.
   2. It simplifies repetitive tasks.
   3. It helps security professionals be more accurate.
   4. It is designed for high levels of accuracy.

## Answers Set 2

1. 1 & 4
2. 2, 3 & 4
3. 4
4. 4
5. 1 & 3
6. 2, 3 & 4
7. 2
8. 4
9. 2, 3 & 4
