- [The Relationship Between Frameworks and Controls](#the-relationship-between-frameworks-and-controls)
  - [Frameworks and controls](#frameworks-and-controls)
  - [Specific frameworks and controls](#specific-frameworks-and-controls)
    - [Cyber Threat Framework (CTF)](#cyber-threat-framework-ctf)
    - [International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001](#international-organization-for-standardizationinternational-electrotechnical-commission-isoiec-27001)
    - [Controls](#controls)
- [Use The CIA Triad To Protect Organizations](#use-the-cia-triad-to-protect-organizations)
  - [The CIA triad for analysts](#the-cia-triad-for-analysts)
  - [Confidentiality](#confidentiality)
  - [Integrity](#integrity)
  - [Availability](#availability)
- [NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)](#nist-cybersecurity-framework-csf)
  - [NIST S.P. 800-53](#nist-sp-800-53)
- [More About OWASP Security Principles](#more-about-owasp-security-principles)
  - [Security principles](#security-principles)
  - [Additional OWASP security principles](#additional-owasp-security-principles)
    - [Establish secure defaults](#establish-secure-defaults)
    - [Fail securely](#fail-securely)
    - [Don’t trust services](#dont-trust-services)
    - [Avoid security by obscurity](#avoid-security-by-obscurity)
- [More about security audits](#more-about-security-audits)
  - [Security audits](#security-audits)
  - [Goals and objectives of an audit](#goals-and-objectives-of-an-audit)
  - [Factors that affect audits](#factors-that-affect-audits)
  - [The role of frameworks and controls in audits](#the-role-of-frameworks-and-controls-in-audits)
  - [Audit questions](#audit-questions)
  - [Audit checklist](#audit-checklist)
    - [Identify the scope of the audit](#identify-the-scope-of-the-audit)
    - [Complete a risk assessment](#complete-a-risk-assessment)
    - [Conduct the audit](#conduct-the-audit)
    - [Create a mitigation plan](#create-a-mitigation-plan)
    - [Communicate results to stakeholders](#communicate-results-to-stakeholders)
- [Portfolio Activity: Conduct a Security Audit](#portfolio-activity-conduct-a-security-audit)
  - [Scenario](#scenario)
  - [Step-By-Step Instructions](#step-by-step-instructions)
    - [Step 1: Access supporting materials](#step-1-access-supporting-materials)
    - [Step 2: Conduct the audit: Controls and compliance checklist](#step-2-conduct-the-audit-controls-and-compliance-checklist)
      - [What to Include in Your Response](#what-to-include-in-your-response)
    - [Step 3: Assess your activity](#step-3-assess-your-activity)
  - [Completed Exemplar](#completed-exemplar)
- [Quiz: Module 2 Challenge](#quiz-module-2-challenge)
  - [Questions Set 1](#questions-set-1)
  - [Answers Set 1](#answers-set-1)
  - [Questions Set 2](#questions-set-2)
  - [Answers Set 2](#answers-set-2)

# The Relationship Between Frameworks and Controls

## Frameworks and controls

**Security frameworks** are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy. Frameworks support organizations’ ability to adhere to compliance laws and regulations. For example, the healthcare industry uses frameworks to comply with the United States’ Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which requires that medical professionals keep patient information safe.

**Security controls** are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. Security controls are the measures organizations use to lower risk and threats to data and privacy. For example, a control that can be used alongside frameworks to ensure a hospital remains compliant with HIPAA is requiring that patients use multi-factor authentication (MFA) to access their medical records. Using a measure like MFA to validate someone’s identity is one way to help mitigate potential risks and threats to private data.

## Specific frameworks and controls

There are many different frameworks and controls that organizations can use to remain compliant with regulations and achieve their security goals. Frameworks covered in this reading are the Cyber Threat Framework (CTF) and the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001. Several common security controls, used alongside these types of frameworks, are also explained.

### Cyber Threat Framework (CTF)

According to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the CTF was developed by the U.S. government to provide “a common language for describing and communicating information about cyber threat activity.” By providing a common language to communicate information about threat activity, the CTF helps cybersecurity professionals analyze and share information more efficiently. This allows organizations to improve their response to the constantly evolving cybersecurity landscape and threat actors' many tactics and techniques.

### International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001

An internationally recognized and used framework is ISO/IEC 27001. The ISO 27000 family of standards enables organizations of all sectors and sizes to manage the security of assets, such as financial information, intellectual property, employee data, and information entrusted to third parties. This framework outlines requirements for an information security management system, best practices, and controls that support an organization’s ability to manage risks. Although the ISO/IEC 27001 framework does not require the use of specific controls, it does provide a collection of controls that organizations can use to improve their security posture.

### Controls

Controls are used alongside frameworks to reduce the possibility and impact of a security threat, risk, or vulnerability. Controls can be physical, technical, and administrative and are typically used to prevent, detect, or correct security issues.

Examples of physical controls:

- Gates, fences, and locks
- Security guards
- Closed-circuit television (CCTV), surveillance cameras, and motion detectors
- Access cards or badges to enter office spaces

Examples of technical controls:

- Firewalls
- MFA
- Antivirus software

Examples of administrative controls:

- Separation of duties
- Authorization
- Asset classification

To learn more about controls, particularly those used to protect health-related assets from a variety of threat types, review the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ [Physical Access Control presentation](https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/physical-access-control.pdf).

# Use The CIA Triad To Protect Organizations

## The CIA triad for analysts

The **CIA triad** is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. It is made up of three elements that cybersecurity analysts and organizations work toward upholding: confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Maintaining an acceptable level of risk and ensuring systems and policies are designed with these elements in mind helps establish a successful security posture, which refers to an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change.

## Confidentiality

**Confidentiality** is the idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. In an organization, confidentiality can be enhanced through the implementation of design principles, such as the principle of least privilege. The principle of least privilege limits users' access to only the information they need to complete work-related tasks. Limiting access is one way of maintaining the confidentiality and security of private data.

## Integrity

**Integrity** is the idea that the data is verifiably correct, authentic, and reliable. Having protocols in place to verify the authenticity of data is essential. One way to verify data integrity is through [cryptography](https://www.nist.gov/cryptography), which is used to transform data so unauthorized parties cannot read or tamper with it (NIST, 2022). Another example of how an organization might implement integrity is by enabling encryption, which is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. Encryption can be used to prevent access and ensure data, such as messages on an organization's internal chat platform, cannot be tampered with.

## Availability

Availability is the idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to use it. When a system adheres to both availability and confidentiality principles, data can be used when needed. In the workplace, this could mean that the organization allows remote employees to access its internal network to perform their jobs. It’s worth noting that access to data on the internal network is still limited, depending on what type of access employees need to do their jobs. If, for example, an employee works in the organization’s accounting department, they might need access to corporate accounts but not data related to ongoing development projects.

# NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)

A voluntarily framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.

Five core functions:

1. **Identify**: The management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organization's people and assets.
2. **Protect**: The strategy used to protect an organization through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats.
3. **Detect**: Identifying potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections.
4. **Respond**: Making sure that the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents, and implement improvements to the security process.
5. **Recover**: The process of returning affected systems back to normal operation.

## NIST S.P. 800-53

A unified framework for protecting the security of information systems within the federal government.

# More About OWASP Security Principles

## Security principles

In the workplace, security principles are embedded in your daily tasks. Whether you are analyzing logs, monitoring a security information and event management (SIEM) dashboard, or using a [vulnerability scanner](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/vulnerability_scanner), you will use these principles in some way.

Previously, you were introduced to several OWASP security principles. These included:

- **Minimize attack surface area**: Attack surface refers to all the potential vulnerabilities a threat actor could exploit.
- **Principle of least privilege**: Users have the least amount of access required to perform their everyday tasks.
- **Defense in depth**: Organizations should have varying security controls that mitigate risks and threats.
- **Separation of duties**: Critical actions should rely on multiple people, each of whom follow the principle of least privilege.
- **Keep security simple**: Avoid unnecessarily complicated solutions. Complexity makes security difficult.
- **Fix security issues correctly**: When security incidents occur, identify the root cause, contain the impact, identify vulnerabilities, and conduct tests to ensure that remediation is successful.

## Additional OWASP security principles

Next, you’ll learn about four additional OWASP security principles that cybersecurity analysts and their teams use to keep organizational operations and people safe.

### Establish secure defaults

This principle means that the optimal security state of an application is also its default state for users; it should take extra work to make the application insecure.

### Fail securely

Fail securely means that when a control fails or stops, it should do so by defaulting to its most secure option. For example, when a firewall fails it should simply close all connections and block all new ones, rather than start accepting everything.

### Don’t trust services

Many organizations work with third-party partners. These outside partners often have different security policies than the organization does. And the organization shouldn’t explicitly trust that their partners’ systems are secure. For example, if a third-party vendor tracks reward points for airline customers, the airline should ensure that the balance is accurate before sharing that information with their customers.

### Avoid security by obscurity

The security of key systems should not rely on keeping details hidden. Consider the following example from OWASP (2016): [OWASP Mobile Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-mobile-top-10/2016-risks/).

The security of an application should not rely on keeping the source code secret. Its security should rely upon many other factors, including reasonable password policies, defense in depth, business transaction limits, solid network architecture, and fraud and audit controls.

# More about security audits

## Security audits

A **security audit** is a review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations. Audits are independent reviews that evaluate whether an organization is meeting internal and external criteria. Internal criteria include outlined policies, procedures, and best practices. External criteria include regulatory compliance, laws, and federal regulations.

Additionally, a security audit can be used to assess an organization's established security controls. As a reminder, **security controls** are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks.

Audits help ensure that security checks are made (i.e., daily monitoring of security information and event management dashboards), to identify threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This helps maintain an organization’s security posture. And, if there are security issues, a remediation process must be in place.

## Goals and objectives of an audit

The goal of an audit is to ensure an organization's information technology (IT) practices are meeting industry and organizational standards. The objective is to identify and address areas of remediation and growth. Audits provide direction and clarity by identifying what the current failures are and developing a plan to correct them.

Security audits must be performed to safeguard data and avoid penalties and fines from governmental agencies. The frequency of audits is dependent on local laws and federal compliance regulations.

## Factors that affect audits

Factors that determine the types of audits an organization implements include:

- Industry type
- Organization size
- Ties to the applicable government regulations
- A business’s geographical location
- A business decision to adhere to a specific regulatory compliance

To review common compliance regulations that different organizations need to adhere to, refer to [the reading about controls, frameworks, and compliance](../01-foundations-of-cybersecurity/m3.md#specific-controls-frameworks-and-compliance).

## The role of frameworks and controls in audits

Along with compliance, it’s important to mention the role of frameworks and controls in security audits. Frameworks such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) and the international standard for information security (ISO 27000) series are designed to help organizations prepare for regulatory compliance security audits. By adhering to these and other relevant frameworks, organizations can save time when conducting external and internal audits. Additionally, frameworks, when used alongside controls, can support organizations’ ability to align with regulatory compliance requirements and standards.

There are three main categories of controls to review during an audit, which are administrative and/or managerial, technical, and physical controls. To learn more about specific controls related to each category, click the following link and select “Use Template.”

Link to template: [Control categories](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ut_H5A9FHwuQEy6_qG6Lfy3zwF6GSJnj3DZTMaNRWEE/template/preview?resourcekey=0-i4dR5qZFqQyfzr8uk3OOmA)

## Audit questions

1. What is the audit meant to achieve?
2. Which assets are most at risk?
3. Are current controls sufficient to protect those assets?
4. What controls and compliance regulations need to be implemented?

## Audit checklist

It’s necessary to create an audit checklist before conducting an audit. A checklist is generally made up of the following areas of focus:

### Identify the scope of the audit

The audit should:

- List assets that will be assessed (e.g., firewalls are configured correctly, PII is secure, physical assets are locked, etc.)
- Note how the audit will help the organization achieve its desired goals
- Indicate how often an audit should be performed
- Include an evaluation of organizational policies, protocols, and procedures to make sure they are working as intended and being implemented by employees

### Complete a risk assessment

A risk assessment is used to evaluate identified organizational risks related to budget, controls, internal processes, and external standards (i.e., regulations).

### Conduct the audit

When conducting an internal audit, you will assess the security of the identified assets listed in the audit scope.

### Create a mitigation plan

A mitigation plan is a strategy established to lower the level of risk and potential costs, penalties, or other issues that can negatively affect the organization’s security posture.

### Communicate results to stakeholders

The end result of this process is providing a detailed report of findings, suggested improvements needed to lower the organization's level of risk, and compliance regulations and standards the organization needs to adhere to.

# Portfolio Activity: Conduct a Security Audit

## Scenario

Review the following scenario. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

_This scenario is based on a fictional company:_

Botium Toys is a small U.S. business that develops and sells toys. The business has a single physical location, which serves as their main office, a storefront, and warehouse for their products. However, Botium Toy’s online presence has grown, attracting customers in the U.S. and abroad. As a result, their information technology (IT) department is under increasing pressure to support their online market worldwide.

The manager of the IT department has decided that an internal IT audit needs to be conducted. She's worried about maintaining compliance and business operations as the company grows without a clear plan. She believes an internal audit can help better secure the company’s infrastructure and help them identify and mitigate potential risks, threats, or vulnerabilities to critical assets. The manager is also interested in ensuring that they comply with regulations related to internally processing and accepting online payments and conducting business in the European Union (E.U.).

The IT manager starts by implementing the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF), establishing an audit scope and goals, listing assets currently managed by the IT department, and completing a risk assessment. The goal of the audit is to provide an overview of the risks and/or fines that the company might experience due to the current state of their security posture.

Your task is to review the IT manager’s scope, goals, and risk assessment report. Then, perform an internal audit by completing a controls and compliance checklist.

## Step-By-Step Instructions

### Step 1: Access supporting materials

- [Botium Toys: Scope, goals, and risk assessment report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s2u_RuhRAI40JSh-eZHvaFsV1ZMxcNSWXifHDTOsgFc/template/preview#heading=h.evidx83t54sc)
- [Control categories](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HsIw5HNDbRXzW7pmhPLsK06B7HF-KMifENO_TlccbSU/template/preview)
- [Controls and compliance checklist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10NoXfyE3ZSiHFqiTE0fINL3xdPvTZq0j0VwnFEM0N3g/template/preview#heading=h.87tykp1u0l36)

### Step 2: Conduct the audit: Controls and compliance checklist

Conduct the security audit by completing the controls and compliance checklist.

To complete the checklist, open the supporting materials provided in Step 1. Then:

1. Review **Botium Toys: Scope, goals, and risk assessment report**, with a focus on:
   1. The assets currently managed by the IT department
   2. The bullet points under “Additional comments” in the Risk assessment section
2. Consider information provided in the report using the **Controls Categories** document.
3. Then, review the **Controls and compliance checklist** and select **“yes” or “no”** to answer the question in each section _(note: the recommendations section is optional).\*_

Finally, be sure to download and save a copy of your completed activity to your own device. You can upload it to the portfolio platform of your choice, then share with potential employers to help demonstrate your knowledge and experience.

#### What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to address the following elements in your completed activity:

**Controls and compliance checklist**

- “Yes” or “no” is selected to answer the question related to each control listed
- “Yes” or “no” is selected to answer the question related to each compliance best practice
- A recommendation is provided for the IT manager (optional)

### Step 3: Assess your activity

The following is a self-assessment for your controls and compliance checklist. You will use these statements to review your own work. The self-assessment process is an important part of the learning experience because it allows you to objectively assess your security audit.

There are a total of 5 points possible for this activity and each statement is worth 1 point. The items correspond to each step you completed for the activity.

To complete the self-assessment, first open your controls assessment and compliance checklist. Then respond yes or no to each statement.

When you complete and submit your responses, you will receive a percentage score. This score will help you confirm whether you completed the required steps of the activity. The recommended passing grade for this project is at least 80% (or 4/5 points). If you want to increase your score, you can revise your project and then resubmit your responses to reflect any changes you made. Try to achieve at least 4 points before continuing on to the next course item.

## Completed Exemplar

[Controls and compliance checklist exemplar](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QQOXccTxs9g9OGlm56O52nelOuOYZz1NE6LAN_sV5nU/template/preview)

# Quiz: Module 2 Challenge

## Questions Set 1

1. How do organizations use security frameworks to develop an effective security posture?
   1. As a guide to reduce risk and protect data and privacy
   2. As a policy to protect against phishing campaigns
   3. As a guide to identify threat actor strategies
   4. As a policy to support employee training initiatives
2. Fill in the blank: An employee using multi-factor authentication to verify their identity is an example of the **\_** process.
   1. integrity
   2. confidentiality
   3. authentication
   4. encryption
3. A person’s fingerprint, eye or palm scan are examples of what?
   1. Passwords
   2. Statistics
   3. Biometrics
   4. Codes
4. You work as a security analyst for a supply chain organization and need to confirm all inventory data is correct, authentic, and reliable. Which core principle of the CIA triad are you using?
   1. Credibility
   2. Confidentiality
   3. Integrity
   4. Availability
5. Which of the following statements accurately describe the CSF? Select all that apply.
   1. Implementing improvements to a security process is part of the respond function of the CSF.
   2. The identify function of the CSF is related to the management of cybersecurity risk and its effects on an organization’s people and assets.
   3. The CSF is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.
   4. The protect function of the CSF involves returning affected systems back to normal operation.
6. A security team establishes controls, including permission settings that will be used to create multiple security points that a threat actor must get through to breach their organization. Which OWASP principle does this scenario describe?
   1. Defense in depth
   2. Separation of duties
   3. Principle of least privilege
   4. Keep security simple
7. What are some of the primary objectives of an internal security audit? Select all that apply.
   1. Enable security teams to assess controls
   2. Identify any security gaps or weaknesses within an organization
   3. Help security teams correct compliance issues
   4. Limit traffic on an organization’s firewall
8. Fill in the blank: In an internal security audit, **\_** involves identifying potential threats, risks, and vulnerabilities in order to decide what security measures should be implemented.
   1. conducting a risk assessment
   2. establishing the scope and goals
   3. assessing compliance
   4. communicating to stakeholders
9. A security analyst performs an internal security audit. They determine that the organization needs to install surveillance cameras at various store locations. What are they working to establish?
   1. Administrative controls
   2. Physical controls
   3. Technical controls
   4. Communication controls
10. What information is typically communicated to stakeholders after completion of an internal security audit? Select three answers.
    1. A summary of the goals
    2. Strategies for improving security posture
    3. Existing risks that need to be addressed now or in the future
    4. Detailed data about past cybersecurity incidents

## Answers Set 1

1. 1
2. 2
3. 3
4. 3
5. 1, 2 & 3
6. 1
7. 1, 2 & 3
8. 1
9. 2
10. 1, 2 & 3

## Questions Set 2

1. How do organizations use security frameworks to develop an effective security posture?
   1. As a policy to protect against phishing campaigns
   2. As a guide to identify threat actor strategies
   3. As a policy to support employee training initiatives
   4. As a guide to reduce risk and protect data and privacy
2. Fill in the blank: A security professional uses **\_** to convert data from a readable format to an encoded format.
   1. authorization
   2. authentication
   3. confidentiality
   4. encryption
3. Which of the following characteristics are examples of biometrics? Select all that apply.
   1. Eye scan
   2. Fingerprint
   3. Password
   4. Palm scan
4. You work as a security analyst at a bank and need to ensure that customers can access their account information. Which core principle of the CIA triad are you using to confirm their data is accessible to them?
   1. Availability
   2. Integrity
   3. Confidentiality
   4. Accuracy
5. Which of the following statements accurately describe the CSF? Select all that apply.
   1. The CSF is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.
   2. The protect function of the CSF involves returning affected systems back to normal operation.
   3. Implementing improvements to a security process is part of the respond function of the CSF.
   4. The identify function of the CSF is related to the management of cybersecurity risk and its effects on an organization’s people and assets.
6. A security team considers how to avoid unnecessarily complicated solutions when implementing security controls. Which OWASP principle does this scenario describe?
   1. Fix security issues correctly
   2. Defense in depth
   3. Keep security simple
   4. Principle of least privilege
7. What are some of the primary objectives of an internal security audit? Select all that apply.
   1. Reduce the amount of data on a network
   2. Avoid fines due to a lack of compliance
   3. Help security teams identify organizational risk
   4. Determine what needs to be improved in order to achieve the desired security posture
8. Fill in the blank: The planning elements of an internal security audit include establishing scope and **\_**, then conducting a risk assessment.
   1. controls
   2. goals
   3. limitations
   4. compliance
9. A security analyst performs an internal security audit. They focus on the human component of cybersecurity, such as the policies and procedures that define how their company manages data. What are they working to establish?
   1. Compliance controls
   2. Physical controls
   3. Technical controls
   4. Administrative controls
10. What information is typically communicated to stakeholders after completion of an internal security audit? Select three answers.
    1. A list of existing risks
    2. Questions about specific controls
    3. A summary of the scope
    4. Results and recommendations

## Answers Set 2

1. 4
2. 4
3. 1, 2 & 4
4. 1
5. 1, 3 & 4
6. 3
7. 2, 3 & 4
8. 2
9. 4
10. 1, 3 & 4
