- [Common logs sources](#common-logs-sources)
  - [Firewall logs](#firewall-logs)
  - [Network logs](#network-logs)
  - [Server logs](#server-logs)
- [The future of SIEM tools](#the-future-of-siem-tools)
  - [Current SIEM solutions](#current-siem-solutions)
  - [The future of SIEM tools](#the-future-of-siem-tools-1)
  - [Metrics](#metrics)
- [More about cybersecurity tools](#more-about-cybersecurity-tools)
  - [Open-source tools](#open-source-tools)
  - [Proprietary tools](#proprietary-tools)
    - [Common misconceptions](#common-misconceptions)
  - [Examples of open-source tools](#examples-of-open-source-tools)
    - [Linux](#linux)
    - [Suricata](#suricata)
- [Use SIEM tools to protect organizations](#use-siem-tools-to-protect-organizations)
  - [Splunk](#splunk)
    - [Security posture dashboard](#security-posture-dashboard)
    - [Executive summary dashboard](#executive-summary-dashboard)
    - [Incident review dashboard](#incident-review-dashboard)
    - [Risk analysis dashboard](#risk-analysis-dashboard)
  - [Chronicle](#chronicle)
    - [Enterprise insights dashboard](#enterprise-insights-dashboard)
    - [Data ingestion and health dashboard](#data-ingestion-and-health-dashboard)
    - [IOC matches dashboard](#ioc-matches-dashboard)
    - [Main dashboard](#main-dashboard)
    - [Rule detections dashboard](#rule-detections-dashboard)
    - [User sign in overview dashboard](#user-sign-in-overview-dashboard)
- [Quiz: Module 3 Challenge](#quiz-module-3-challenge)
  - [Questions Set 1](#questions-set-1)
  - [Answers Set 1](#answers-set-1)
  - [Questions Set 2](#questions-set-2)
  - [Answers Set 2](#answers-set-2)

# Common logs sources

## Firewall logs

A **firewall log** is a record of attempted or established connections for incoming traffic from the internet. It also includes outbound requests to the internet from within the network.

## Network logs

A **network log** is a record of all computers and leave the network. It also records connections between devices and services on the network.

## Server logs

A **server log** is a record of events related to services, such as websites, emails, or file shares. It includes actions such as login, password, and username requests.

# The future of SIEM tools

## Current SIEM solutions

A **SIEM** tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. SIEM tools offer real-time monitoring and tracking of security event logs. The data is then used to conduct a thorough analysis of any potential security threat, risk, or vulnerability identified. SIEM tools have many dashboard options. Each dashboard option helps cybersecurity team members manage and monitor organizational data. However, currently, SIEM tools require human interaction for analysis of security events.

## The future of SIEM tools

As cybersecurity continues to evolve, the need for cloud functionality has increased. SIEM tools have and continue to evolve to function in cloud-hosted and cloud-native environments. Cloud-hosted SIEM tools are operated by vendors who are responsible for maintaining and managing the infrastructure required to use the tools. Cloud-hosted tools are simply accessed through the internet and are an ideal solution for organizations that don’t want to invest in creating and maintaining their own infrastructure.

Similar to cloud-hosted SIEM tools, cloud-native SIEM tools are also fully maintained and managed by vendors and accessed through the internet. However, cloud-native tools are designed to take full advantage of cloud computing capabilities, such as availability, flexibility, and scalability.

Yet, the evolution of SIEM tools is expected to continue in order to accommodate the changing nature of technology, as well as new threat actor tactics and techniques. For example, consider the current development of interconnected devices with access to the internet, known as the Internet of Things (IoT). The more interconnected devices there are, the larger the cybersecurity attack surface and the amount of data that threat actors can exploit. The diversity of attacks and data that require special attention is expected to grow significantly. Additionally, as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technology continues to progress, SIEM capabilities will be enhanced to better identify threat-related terminology, dashboard visualization, and data storage functionality.

The implementation of automation will also help security teams respond faster to possible incidents, performing many actions without waiting for a human response. **Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR)** is a collection of applications, tools, and workflows that uses automation to respond to security events. Essentially, this means that handling common security-related incidents with the use of SIEM tools is expected to become a more streamlined process requiring less manual intervention. This frees up security analysts to handle more complex and uncommon incidents that, consequently, can’t be automated with a SOAR. Nevertheless, the expectation is for cybersecurity-related platforms to communicate and interact with one another. Although the technology allowing interconnected systems and devices to communicate with each other exists, it is still a work in progress.

## Metrics

Key technical attributes, such as response time, availability, and failure rate, which are used to assess the performance of a software application.

# More about cybersecurity tools

## Open-source tools

Open-source tools are often free to use and can be user friendly. The objective of open-source tools is to provide users with software that is built by the public in a collaborative way, which can result in the software being more secure. Additionally, open-source tools allow for more customization by users, resulting in a variety of new services built from the same open-source software package.

Software engineers create open-source projects to improve software and make it available for anyone to use, as long as the specified license is respected. The source code for open-source projects is readily available to users, as well as the training material that accompanies them. Having these sources readily available allows users to modify and improve project materials.

## Proprietary tools

Proprietary tools are developed and owned by a person or company, and users typically pay a fee for usage and training. The owners of proprietary tools are the only ones who can access and modify the source code. This means that users generally need to wait for updates to be made to the software, and at times they might need to pay a fee for those updates. Proprietary software generally allows users to modify a limited number of features to meet individual and organizational needs. Examples of proprietary tools include Splunk® and Chronicle SIEM tools.

### Common misconceptions

There is a common misconception that open-source tools are less effective and not as safe to use as proprietary tools. However, developers have been creating open-source materials for years that have become industry standards. Although it is true that threat actors have attempted to manipulate open-source tools, because these tools are open source it is actually harder for people with malicious intent to successfully cause harm. The wide exposure and immediate access to the source code by well-intentioned and informed users and professionals makes it less likely for issues to occur, because they can fix issues as soon as they’re identified.

## Examples of open-source tools

In security, there are many tools in use that are open-source and commonly available. Two examples are Linux and Suricata.

### Linux

Linux is an open-source operating system that is widely used. It allows you to tailor the operating system to your needs using a command-line interface. An **operating system** is the interface between computer hardware and the user. It’s used to communicate with the hardware of a computer and manage software applications.

There are multiple versions of Linux that exist to accomplish specific tasks. Linux and its command-line interface will be discussed in detail, later in the certificate program.

### Suricata

Suricata is an open-source network analysis and threat detection software. Network analysis and threat detection software is used to inspect network traffic to identify suspicious behavior and generate network data logs. The detection software finds activity across users, computers, or Internet Protocol (IP) addresses to help uncover potential threats, risks, or vulnerabilities.

Suricata was developed by the Open Information Security Foundation (OISF). OISF is dedicated to maintaining open-source use of the Suricata project to ensure it’s free and publicly available. Suricata is widely used in the public and private sector, and it integrates with many SIEM tools and other security tools. Suricata will also be discussed in greater detail later in the program.

# Use SIEM tools to protect organizations

## Splunk

Splunk offers different SIEM tool options: Splunk<sup>®</sup> Enterprise and Splunk<sup>®</sup> Cloud. Both allow you to review an organization's data on dashboards. This helps security professionals manage an organization's internal infrastructure by collecting, searching, monitoring, and analyzing log data from multiple sources to obtain full visibility into an organization’s everyday operations.

Review the following Splunk dashboards and their purposes:

### Security posture dashboard

The security posture dashboard is designed for security operations centers (SOCs). It displays the last 24 hours of an organization’s notable security-related events and trends and allows security professionals to determine if security infrastructure and policies are performing as designed. Security analysts can use this dashboard to monitor and investigate potential threats in real time, such as suspicious network activity originating from a specific IP address.

### Executive summary dashboard

The executive summary dashboard analyzes and monitors the overall health of the organization over time. This helps security teams improve security measures that reduce risk. Security analysts might use this dashboard to provide high-level insights to stakeholders, such as generating a summary of security incidents and trends over a specific period of time.

### Incident review dashboard

The incident review dashboard allows analysts to identify suspicious patterns that can occur in the event of an incident. It assists by highlighting higher risk items that need immediate review by an analyst. This dashboard can be very helpful because it provides a visual timeline of the events leading up to an incident.

### Risk analysis dashboard

The risk analysis dashboard helps analysts identify risk for each risk object (e.g., a specific user, a computer, or an IP address). It shows changes in risk-related activity or behavior, such as a user logging in outside of normal working hours or unusually high network traffic from a specific computer. A security analyst might use this dashboard to analyze the potential impact of vulnerabilities in critical assets, which helps analysts prioritize their risk mitigation efforts.

## Chronicle

Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool from Google that retains, analyzes, and searches log data to identify potential security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. Chronicle allows you to collect and analyze log data according to:

- A specific asset
- A domain name
- A user
- An IP address

Chronicle provides multiple dashboards that help analysts monitor an organization’s logs, create filters and alerts, and track suspicious domain names.

Review the following Chronicle dashboards and their purposes:

### Enterprise insights dashboard

The enterprise insights dashboard highlights recent alerts. It identifies suspicious domain names in logs, known as indicators of compromise (IOCs). Each result is labeled with a confidence score to indicate the likelihood of a threat. It also provides a severity level that indicates the significance of each threat to the organization. A security analyst might use this dashboard to monitor login or data access attempts related to a critical asset—like an application or system—from unusual locations or devices.

### Data ingestion and health dashboard

The data ingestion and health dashboard shows the number of event logs, log sources, and success rates of data being processed into Chronicle. A security analyst might use this dashboard to ensure that log sources are correctly configured and that logs are received without error. This helps ensure that log related issues are addressed so that the security team has access to the log data they need.

### IOC matches dashboard

The IOC matches dashboard indicates the top threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to the organization. Security professionals use this dashboard to observe domain names, IP addresses, and device IOCs over time in order to identify trends. This information is then used to direct the security team’s focus to the highest priority threats. For example, security analysts can use this dashboard to search for additional activity associated with an alert, such as a suspicious user login from an unusual geographic location.

### Main dashboard

The main dashboard displays a high-level summary of information related to the organization’s data ingestion, alerting, and event activity over time. Security professionals can use this dashboard to access a timeline of security events—such as a spike in failed login attempts— to identify threat trends across log sources, devices, IP addresses, and physical locations.

### Rule detections dashboard

The rule detections dashboard provides statistics related to incidents with the highest occurrences, severities, and detections over time. Security analysts can use this dashboard to access a list of all the alerts triggered by a specific detection rule, such as a rule designed to alert whenever a user opens a known malicious attachment from an email. Analysts then use those statistics to help manage recurring incidents and establish mitigation tactics to reduce an organization's level of risk.

### User sign in overview dashboard

The user sign in overview dashboard provides information about user access behavior across the organization. Security analysts can use this dashboard to access a list of all user sign-in events to identify unusual user activity, such as a user signing in from multiple locations at the same time. This information is then used to help mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to user accounts and the organization’s applications.

# Quiz: Module 3 Challenge

## Questions Set 1

1. Which of the following statements correctly describe logs? Select three answers.
   1. Security teams monitor logs to identify vulnerabilities and potential data breaches.
   2. Outbound requests to the internet from within a network are recorded in a firewall log.
   3. Connections between devices and services on a network are recorded in a firewall log.
   4. Actions such as login requests are recorded in a server log.
2. What are some of the key benefits of SIEM tools? Select three answers.
   1. Deliver automated alerts
   2. Minimize the number of logs to be manually reviewed
   3. Automatic customization to changing security needs
   4. Increase efficiency
3. Fill in the blank: To assess the performance of a software application, security professionals use **\_**, including response time, availability, and failure rate.
   1. SIEM tools
   2. metrics
   3. dashboards
   4. logs
4. A security team installs a SIEM tool within their company’s own infrastructure to keep private data on internal servers. What type of tool are they using?
   1. Hybrid
   2. Cloud-hosted
   3. Infrastructure-hosted
   4. Self-hosted
5. You are a security analyst, and you want a security solution that will be fully maintained and managed by your SIEM tool provider. What type of tool do you choose?
   1. Solution-hosted
   2. Cloud-hosted
   3. Self-hosted
   4. Hybrid
6. Fill in the blank: SIEM tools are used to search, analyze, and **\_** an organization's log data to provide security information and alerts in real-time.
   1. modify
   2. release
   3. separate
   4. retain
7. A security analyst receives an alert about hundreds of login attempts from unusual geographic locations within the last few minutes. What can the analyst use to review a timeline of the login attempts, locations, and time of activity?
   1. An operating system
   2. A SIEM tool dashboard
   3. A playbook
   4. A network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer)
8. Fill in the blank: The wide exposure and immediate access to the source code of open-source tools makes it **\_** likely that issues will occur.
   1. less
   2. very
   3. equally
   4. more

## Answers Set 1

1. 1 & 4
2. 1, 2 & 4
3. 2
4. 4
5. 2
6. 4
7. 2
8. 1

## Questions Set 2

1. Which of the following statements correctly describe logs? Select three answers.
   1. Connections between devices and services on a network are recorded in a firewall log.
   2. Outbound requests to the internet from within a network are recorded in a firewall log.
   3. Security teams monitor logs to identify vulnerabilities and potential data breaches.
   4. Actions such as login requests are recorded in a server log.
2. What are some of the key benefits of SIEM tools? Select three answers.
   1. Eliminate the need for manual review of logs
   2. Provide event monitoring and analysis
   3. Save time
   4. Collect log data from different sources
3. Fill in the blank: To assess the performance of a software application, security professionals use **\_**, including response time, availability, and failure rate.
   1. logs
   2. SIEM tools
   3. dashboards
   4. metrics
4. A security team chooses to implement a SIEM tool that they will install, operate, and maintain using their own physical infrastructure. What type of tool are they using?
   1. Log-hosted
   2. Self-hosted
   3. Cloud-hosted
   4. Hybrid
5. You are a security analyst, and you want a security solution that will be fully maintained and managed by your SIEM tool provider. What type of tool do you choose?
   1. Self-hosted
   2. Cloud-hosted
   3. Solution-hosted
   4. Hybrid
6. Fill in the blank: SIEM tools are used to search, analyze, and **\_** an organization's log data to provide security information and alerts in real-time.
   1. release
   2. retain
   3. separate
   4. modify
7. A security analyst receives an alert about hundreds of login attempts from unusual geographic locations within the last few minutes. What can the analyst use to review a timeline of the login attempts, locations, and time of activity?
   1. An operating system
   2. A network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer)
   3. A SIEM tool dashboard
   4. A playbook
8. Fill in the blank: **\_** tools are often free to use.
   1. Proprietary
   2. Open-source
   3. Command-line
   4. Cloud-hosted

## Answers Set 2

1. 2, 3 & 4
2. 2, 3 & 4
3. 4
4. 2
5. 2
6. 2
7. 3
8. 2
