- [More about playbooks](#more-about-playbooks)
  - [Playbook overview](#playbook-overview)
  - [Types of playbooks](#types-of-playbooks)
    - [Incident and vulnerability response playbooks](#incident-and-vulnerability-response-playbooks)
  - [Resources for more information](#resources-for-more-information)
- [Playbooks, SIEM tools, and SOAR tools](#playbooks-siem-tools-and-soar-tools)
  - [Playbooks and SIEM tools](#playbooks-and-siem-tools)
  - [Playbooks and SOAR tools](#playbooks-and-soar-tools)
- [Quiz: Module 4 Challenge](#quiz-module-4-challenge)
  - [Questions Set 1](#questions-set-1)
  - [Answers Set 1](#answers-set-1)

# More about playbooks

## Playbook overview

A **playbook** is a manual that provides details about any operational action. Essentially, a playbook provides a predefined and up-to-date list of steps to perform when responding to an incident.

Playbooks are accompanied by a strategy. The strategy outlines expectations of team members who are assigned a task, and some playbooks also list the individuals responsible. The outlined expectations are accompanied by a plan. The plan dictates how the specific task outlined in the playbook must be completed.

Playbooks should be treated as living documents, which means that they are frequently updated by security team members to address industry changes and new threats. Playbooks are generally managed as a collaborative effort, since security team members have different levels of expertise.

Updates are often made if:

- A failure is identified, such as an oversight in the outlined policies and procedures, or in the playbook itself.
- There is a change in industry standards, such as changes in laws or regulatory compliance.
- The cybersecurity landscape changes due to evolving threat actor tactics and techniques.

## Types of playbooks

Playbooks sometimes cover specific incidents and vulnerabilities. These might include ransomware, vishing, business email compromise (BEC), and other attacks previously discussed. Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are very common, but they are not the only types of playbooks organizations develop.

Each organization has a different set of playbook tools, methodologies, protocols, and procedures that they adhere to, and different individuals are involved at each step of the response process, depending on the country they are in. For example, incident notification requirements from government-imposed laws and regulations, along with compliance standards, affect the content in the playbooks. These requirements are subject to change based on where the incident originated and the type of data affected.

### Incident and vulnerability response playbooks

Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are commonly used by entry-level cybersecurity professionals. They are developed based on the goals outlined in an organization’s business continuity plan. A business continuity plan is an established path forward allowing a business to recover and continue to operate as normal, despite a disruption like a security breach.

These two types of playbooks are similar in that they both contain predefined and up-to-date lists of steps to perform when responding to an incident. Following these steps is necessary to ensure that you, as a security professional, are adhering to legal and organizational standards and protocols. These playbooks also help minimize errors and ensure that important actions are performed within a specific timeframe.

When an incident, threat, or vulnerability occurs or is identified, the level of risk to the organization depends on the potential damage to its assets. A basic formula for determining the level of risk is that risk equals the likelihood of a threat. For this reason, a sense of urgency is essential. Following the steps outlined in playbooks is also important if any forensic task is being carried out. Mishandling data can easily compromise forensic data, rendering it unusable.

Common steps included in incident and vulnerability playbooks include:

- **Preparation**: Before incidents occur, mitigate potential impacts on the organization by documenting, establishing staffing plans, and educating users.
- **Detection and analysis**: Detect and analyze events by implementing defined processes and appropriate technology.
- **Containment**: Prevent further damage and reduce immediate impact of incidents.
- **Eradication and recovery**: Completely remove artifacts of the incident so that an organization can return to normal operations.
- **Post-incident activity**: Document the incident, inform organizational leadership, and apply lessons learned.
- **Coordination**: Report incidents and share information throughout the response process, based on established standards.

Additional steps include performing post-incident activities, and a coordination of efforts throughout the investigation and incident and vulnerability response stages.

## Resources for more information

Incident and vulnerability response playbooks are only two examples of the many playbooks that an organization uses. If you plan to work as a cybersecurity professional outside of the U.S., you may want to explore the following resources:

- [United Kingdom, National Cyber Security Center (NCSC) - Incident Management](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/section/about-ncsc/incident-management)
- [Australian Government - Cyber Incident Response Plan](https://www.cyber.gov.au/sites/default/files/2023-03/ACSC%20Cyber%20Incident%20Response%20Plan%20Guidance_A4.pdf)
- [Japan Computer Emergency Response Team Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC) - Vulnerability Handling and related guidelines](https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/vh/guidelines.html)
- [Government of Canada - Ransomware Playbook](https://www.cyber.gc.ca/en/guidance/ransomware-playbook-itsm00099)
- [Scottish Government - Playbook Templates](https://www.gov.scot/publications/cyber-resilience-incident-management/)
- [Singapore CSA - Incident Response Playbooks](https://www.csa.gov.sg/Tips-Resource/Resources/singcert/incident-response-playbooks)

# Playbooks, SIEM tools, and SOAR tools

Previously, you learned that security teams encounter threats, risks, vulnerabilities, and incidents on a regular basis and that they follow playbooks to address security-related issues. In this reading, you will learn more about playbooks, including how they are used in security information and event management (SIEM) and security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR).

## Playbooks and SIEM tools

Playbooks are used by cybersecurity teams in the event of an incident. Playbooks help security teams respond to incidents by ensuring that a consistent list of actions are followed in a prescribed way, regardless of who is working on the case. Playbooks can be very detailed and may include flow charts and tables to clarify what actions to take and in which order. Playbooks are also used for recovery procedures in the event of a ransomware attack. Different types of security incidents have their own playbooks that detail who should take what action and when.

Playbooks are generally used alongside SIEM tools. If, for example, unusual user behavior is flagged by a SIEM tool, a playbook provides analysts with instructions about how to address the issue.

## Playbooks and SOAR tools

Playbooks are also used with SOAR tools. SOAR tools are similar to SIEM tools in that they are used for threat monitoring. SOAR is a piece of software used to automate repetitive tasks generated by tools such as a SIEM or managed detection and response (MDR). For example, if a user attempts to log into their computer too many times with the wrong password, a SOAR would automatically block their account to stop a possible intrusion. Then, analysts would refer to a playbook to take steps to resolve the issue.

# Quiz: Module 4 Challenge

## Questions Set 1

1. Which of the following statements accurately describe playbooks? Select three answers.
   1. A playbook clarifies what tools to use in response to a security incident.
   2. Organizations use playbooks to ensure employees follow a consistent list of actions.
   3. Organizations use the same playbook for incident response, security alerts, and product-specific purposes.
   4. A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action.
2. What does a security team do when updating and improving a playbook? Select all that apply.
   1. Discuss ways to improve security posture
   2. Consider learnings from past security incidents
   3. Refine response strategies for future incidents
   4. Improve antivirus software performance
3. Fill in the blank: Incident response playbooks are **\_** used to help mitigate and manage security incidents from beginning to end.
   1. exercises
   2. guides
   3. inquiries
   4. examinations
4. An organization has successfully responded to a security incident. According to their established standards, the organization must share information about the incident to a specific government agency. What phase of an incident response playbook does this scenario describe?
   1. Detection and analysis
   2. Coordination
   3. Containment
   4. Preparation
5. Which phase of an incident response playbook is primarily concerned with preventing further damage and reducing the immediate impact of a security incident?
   1. Preparation
   2. Post-incident activity
   3. Detection and analysis
   4. Containment
6. Fill in the blank: During the post-incident activity phase, security teams may conduct a full-scale analysis to determine the **\_** of an incident and use what they learn to improve the company’s overall security posture.
   1. root cause
   2. target
   3. end point
   4. structure
7. A security analyst documents procedures to be followed in the event of a security breach. They also establish staffing plans and educate employees. What phase of an incident response playbook does this scenario describe?
   1. Detection and analysis
   2. Preparation
   3. Eradication and recovery
   4. Coordination
8. In what ways do SIEM tools and playbooks help security teams respond to an incident? Select all that apply.
   1. SIEM alerts provide security teams with specific steps to identify and respond to security incidents.
   2. SIEM alerts inform security teams of potential threats.
   3. SIEM tools and playbooks work together to provide an efficient way of handling security incidents.
   4. SIEM tools analyze data.

## Answers Set 1

1. 1, 2 & 4
2. 1, 2 & 3
3. 2
4. 2
5. 4
6. 1
7. 2
8. 2, 3 & 4
