# Escalate with a purpose

## Incident escalation

Security incident escalation is the process of identifying a potential security incident. During this process, potential incidents are transferred to a more experienced department or team member. As a security analyst, you’ll be expected to recognize potential issues, such as when an employee excessively enters the wrong credentials to their account, and report it to the appropriate person. When you join a new organization, you’ll learn about the specific processes and procedures for escalating incidents.

## Notification of breaches

Many countries have breach notification laws, so it's important to familiarize yourself with the laws applicable in the area your company is operating in. Breach notification laws require companies and government entities to notify individuals of security breaches involving personally identifiable information (PII). PII includes personal identification numbers (e.g., Social Security numbers, driver’s license numbers, etc.), medical records, addresses, and other sensitive customer information. As an entry-level security analyst, you’ll need to be aware of various security laws, especially because they are regularly updated.

## Low-level security issues

Low-level security issues are security risks that do not result in the exposure of PII. These issues can include the following and other risks:

- An employee having one failed login attempt on their account
- An employee downloading unapproved software onto their work laptop

These issues are not significant security challenges, but they must be investigated further in case they need to be escalated. An employee typing in a password two to three times might not be of concern. But if that employee types in a password 15 times within 30 minutes, there might be an issue that needs to be escalated. What if the multiple failed login attempts were a malicious actor attempting to compromise an employee’s account? What if an employee downloads an internet game or software on their work laptop that is infected with malware? You previously learned that malware is software designed to harm devices or networks. If malware is downloaded onto an organization’s network, it can lead to financial loss and even loss of reputation with the organization’s customers. While low-level security issues are not considered significant security threats, they should still be investigated to ensure they result in minimal impact to the organization.

## The escalation process

Every company has different protocols and procedures, including unique escalation policies. These policies detail who should be notified when a security alert is received and who should be contacted if the first responder is not available. The policy will also determine how someone should specifically escalate an incident, whether it’s via the IT desk, an incident management tool, or direct communication between security team members.

# Recognize roles and responsibilities during escalation

## Data owners

A data owner is the person that decides who can access, edit, use, or destroy their information. Data owners have administrative control over specific information hardware or software and are accountable for the classification, protection, access, and use of company data. For example, consider a situation where an employee gains unauthorized access to software they do not need to use for work. This kind of security event would be escalated to the data owner of that software.

## Data controllers

Data controllers determine the procedure and purpose for processing data. This role largely focuses on collecting the personal information of customers. The data controller determines how that data is used. The data controller also ensures that data is used, stored, and processed in accordance with relevant security and privacy regulations. If sensitive customer information was at risk, that event would be escalated to data controllers.

## Data processors

Data processors report directly to the data controller and are responsible for processing the data on behalf of the data controller. The data processor is typically a vendor and is often tasked with installing security measures to help protect the data. Data processing issues are typically escalated to the individual who oversees the third-party organization responsible for data processing.

## Data custodians

Data custodians assign and remove access to software or hardware. Custodians are responsible for implementing security controls for the data they are responsible for, granting and revoking access to that data, creating policies regarding how that data is stored and transmitted, advising on potential threats to that data, and monitoring the data. Data custodians are notified when data security controls need to be strengthened or have been compromised.

## Data protection officers (DPOs)

Data protection officers are responsible for monitoring the internal compliance of an organization’s data protection procedures. These individuals advise the security team on the obligations required by the organization's data protection standards and procedures. They also conduct assessments to determine whether or not the security measures in place are properly protecting the data as necessary. DPOs are notified when set standards or protocols have been violated.

# Escalation timing

## Your decisions matter

Security is a fast-paced environment with bad actors constantly trying to compromise an organization’s systems and data. This means security analysts must be prepared to make daily decisions to help keep a company’s data and systems safe. Entry-level security analysts help the security team escalate potential security incidents to the right team members. A big part of your role as a security analyst will be making decisions about which security events to escalate before they become major security incidents.

## Trust your instincts and ask questions

Confidence is an important attribute for a security analyst to have, especially when it comes to the escalation process. The security team will depend on you to be confident in your decision-making. You should be intentional about learning the organization’s escalation policy. This will help you gain confidence in making the right decisions when it comes to escalating security events. But remember to ask questions when necessary. It shows that you’re committed to constantly learning the right way to do your job.

## All security events are not equal

An important part of escalation is recognizing which assets and data are the most important for your organization. You can determine this information by reading through your onboarding materials, asking your supervisor directly about which assets and data are most important, and reviewing your company’s security policies. When you have that type of understanding, it allows you to recognize when one incident should be given a higher priority over others. You previously learned about the following incident classification types:

- **Malware infections**: Occur when malicious software designed to disrupt a system infiltrates an organization’s computers or network
- **Unauthorized access**: Occurs when an individual gains digital or physical access to a system, data, or application without permission
- **Improper usage**: Occurs when an employee of an organization violates the organization’s acceptable use policies

Identifying a specific incident type allows you to properly prioritize and quickly escalate those incidents. Remember, an incident which directly impacts assets that are essential to business operations should always take priority over incidents that do not directly impact business operations. For example, an incident where unauthorized access has been gained to a manufacturing application should take priority over an incident where malware has infected a legacy system that does not impact business operations. As you gain experience in the cybersecurity field, you will learn how to quickly assess the priority levels of incident types.

## Quick escalation tips

A big part of your role in cybersecurity will be determining when to escalate a security event. Here are a few tips to help with this:

- Familiarize yourself with the escalation policy of the organization you work for.
- Follow the policy at all times.
- Ask questions.

# Juliana's story: Attention to detail

This is the second reading in the scenario about Juliana Soto, a cybersecurity analyst who was recently hired by Right-On-Time Payment Solutions.

## Focus on the details

As she prepares to go into the office this morning, Juliana reflects on the previous day’s accomplishments:

- Read through company information to learn about the most important assets she is tasked with protecting
- Learned that her company deals with PII data from customers
- Put together an information security lifecycle strategy for the organization’s data
- Began monitoring security systems on her work laptop

It was an exciting first day full of new information for Juliana! She wonders what today will bring.

Juliana is at her desk monitoring data logs and responding to emails. Suddenly, her system alerts her of suspicious log activity. It appears that an employee’s account has been locked due to 10 failed login attempts. She finds this concerning because the escalation policy states that 10 failed login attempts should be escalated to the password protection team.

Juliana is excited about her first chance to escalate a security event. As she prepares to go through the escalation process, she is suddenly alerted to another event that has happened. She clicks on the alert and learns that an unknown source has attempted to compromise a system that stores bank account information for the company’s customers. She views this as a major concern. She recalls the importance of sensitive financial information from her previous security training. She learned the previous day that her company stores a large amount of sensitive customer data. Hundreds of customers will be impacted if a system storing this kind of important data is compromised.

Juliana decides that the unknown source attempting to compromise the system that stores the bank information of customers is the more urgent of the two events and needs to be handled immediately. She references the company’s escalation policy to find the best way to handle the escalation process for this type of incident.

Juliana carefully follows the process outlined in the escalation policy, making sure to be attentive to all of the details in the process. This allows her to notify the appropriate team members of what has happened. She completes all the steps outlined in the escalation policy for an event dealing with customer PII.

Next, she decides to escalate the lower-priority event. Once again, she follows the company guidelines to escalate that event.

Juliana’s supervisor is impressed with her initiative and ability to follow the escalation guidelines. Juliana is off to a great start in her security career!

# Quiz: Module 2 Challenge

## Questions

1. Fill in the blank: Incident escalation is the process of **\_**.
   1. properly assessing security events
   2. reporting a security incident to a human resource department for compliance purposes
   3. creating a visual dashboard that shows security stakeholders the amount of security incidents taking place
   4. identifying a potential security incident , triaging it, and handing it off to a more experienced team member
2. What does attention to detail and following an organization’s security event notification process help you with?
   1. Security data forensics
   2. Vulnerability scanning
   3. Log monitoring
   4. Incident escalation
3. As a security analyst, you might be asked to escalate various incidents. Which of the following are common incident classification types? Select two answers.
   1. Malware infection
   2. SPAM
   3. Unauthorized access
   4. Gift card scam
4. Improper usage can be intentional; other times it can be accidental. How should you decide which acts of improper usage should be escalated to a supervisor?
   1. Only intentional acts of improper usage should be escalated.
   2. Improper usage incidents should always be escalated as a precaution.
   3. Improper usage should never be escalated to a supervisor.
   4. Improper usage attempts that affect high-priority assets should be escalated; other improper usage instances are not as important.
5. Fill in the blank: Security incidents involving the PII of customers should be escalated with a \_\_\_\_ level of urgency compared to incidents that do not involve customer PII.
   1. minimal
   2. higher
   3. moderate
   4. lower
6. What is the best way to determine the urgency of a security incident?
   1. Contact the risk assessment team to determine urgency.
   2. Email the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) of the company for clarification.
   3. Reach out to the organization's Red Team supervisor to determine urgency.
   4. Identify the importance of the assets affected by the security incident.
7. What security term is defined as a set of actions that outlines who should be notified when an incident alert occurs?
   1. An escalation policy
   2. A security risk assessor
   3. A vulnerability scan system
   4. A network architecture alert
8. You have recently been hired as a security analyst for an organization. You previously worked at another company doing security, and you were very familiar with their escalation policy. Why would it be important for you to learn your new company’s escalation policy?
   1. Every company has a different escalation policy, and it is an analyst's job to ensure incidents are handled correctly.
   2. The policy will help you analyze data logs.
   3. The policy will advise you on who to report to each day.
   4. The escalation policy will help you with vulnerability scanning.
9. Fill in the blank: A/An **\_** will help an entry-level analyst to know when and how to escalate a security incident.
   1. blue team CIRT guideline
   2. employee security handbook
   3. escalation policy
   4. executive security dashboard
10. Unauthorized access to a system with PII is **\_** critical than an employee’s account being flagged for multiple failed login attempts.
    1. marginally
    2. equally
    3. more
    4. less

## Answers

1. 4
2. 4
3. 1 & 3
4. 2
5. 2
6. 4
7. 1
8. 1
9. 3
10. 3
