- [The purpose and impact of stakeholders](#the-purpose-and-impact-of-stakeholders)
  - [Who are stakeholders?](#who-are-stakeholders)
  - [Levels of stakeholders](#levels-of-stakeholders)
  - [Stakeholder communications for entry-level analysts](#stakeholder-communications-for-entry-level-analysts)
  - [From one stakeholder to the next](#from-one-stakeholder-to-the-next)
- [Communicate effectively with stakeholders](#communicate-effectively-with-stakeholders)
  - [Get to the point](#get-to-the-point)
  - [Follow the protocols](#follow-the-protocols)
  - [Communicate with impact](#communicate-with-impact)
  - [Communication methods](#communication-methods)
- [Create visual dashboards for impactful cybersecurity communications](#create-visual-dashboards-for-impactful-cybersecurity-communications)
  - [Using visuals to communicate effectively](#using-visuals-to-communicate-effectively)
    - [Visual dashboards](#visual-dashboards)
  - [When to use visual communication](#when-to-use-visual-communication)
- [Juliana’s story: Effective communication](#julianas-story-effective-communication)
  - [Communicating with stakeholders after an incident](#communicating-with-stakeholders-after-an-incident)
    - [Communicating about incident #1](#communicating-about-incident-1)
    - [Communicating about incident #2](#communicating-about-incident-2)
- [Quiz: Module 3 Challenge](#quiz-module-3-challenge)
  - [Questions](#questions)
  - [Answers](#answers)

# The purpose and impact of stakeholders

## Who are stakeholders?

A **stakeholder** is defined as an individual or group that has an interest in any decision or activity of an organization. A big part of what you’ll do as a security analyst is report your findings to various security stakeholders.

## Levels of stakeholders

There are many levels of stakeholders within larger organizations. As an entry-level analyst, you might only communicate directly with a few of them. Although you might not communicate with all of the security stakeholders in an organization, it’s important to have an understanding of who key stakeholders are:

- A **cybersecurity risk manager** is a professional responsible for leading efforts to identify, assess, and mitigate security risks within an organization.
- A **Chief Executive Officer**, also known as the CEO, is the highest ranking person in an organization. You are unlikely to communicate directly with this stakeholder as an entry-level analyst.
- A **Chief Financial Officer**, also known as the CFO, is another high-level stakeholder that you’re unlikely to communicate with directly.
- A **Chief Information Security Officer**, also known as the CISO, is the highest level of security stakeholder. You are also unlikely to communicate directly with this stakeholder as an entry-level analyst.
- An **operations manager** oversees the day-to-day security operations. These individuals lead teams related to the development and implementation of security strategies that protect an organization from cyber threats.

CFOs and CISOs are focused on the big picture, like the potential financial burden of a security incident, whereas other roles like operations managers are more focused on the impact on day-to-day operations. Although you will rarely interact directly with high-level security stakeholders, it’s still important to recognize their relevance.

## Stakeholder communications for entry-level analysts

Two examples of security stakeholders with whom you might regularly communicate are operations managers and risk managers. When you report to these stakeholders, you'll need to clearly communicate the current security issue and its possible causes. The operations managers will then determine next steps and coordinate other team members to remediate or resolve the issue.

For example, you might report multiple failed login attempts by an employee to your operations manager. This stakeholder might contact the employee’s supervisor to ensure the occurrence is a genuine issue of entering the wrong password or determine if the account has been compromised. The stakeholder and supervisor might also need to discuss the consequences for day-to-day operations if genuine failed login attempts can lead to account lockouts that might impact business operations. As an entry-level security analyst, you might play a role in implementing preventative measures once next steps have been determined.

## From one stakeholder to the next

Operations managers and risk managers are stakeholders who rely on entry-level analysts and other team members to keep them informed of security events in day-to-day operations. These stakeholders commonly report back to the CISOs and CFOs to give a broader narrative of the organization's overall security picture. Although you won't regularly communicate with high-level stakeholders, it's important to recognize that your efforts still reach the highest levels of security stakeholders in the organization. These other members of your team keep those top-level stakeholders informed on the security measures and protocols in place that are continuously helping to protect the organization.

# Communicate effectively with stakeholders

## Get to the point

Security stakeholders have roles and responsibilities that are time sensitive and impact the business. It’s important that any communications they receive, and the actions they need to take, are clear. To get to the point in your communications, ask yourself:

- What do I want this person to know?
- Why is it important for them to know it?
- When do they need to take action?
- How do I explain the situation in a nontechnical manner?

## Follow the protocols

When you first join a security team, you’ll want to learn about the different protocols and procedures in place for communicating with stakeholders and other members of the organization. It’s important to make sure you know what applications and forms of communications are acceptable before you begin communicating with stakeholders, such as in-person meetings, video-conferencing, emails, or company chat applications.

## Communicate with impact

You previously learned about the different stakeholders within an organization and what specific areas they’re focused on. When you first begin your career in the cybersecurity field, you're more likely to interact with lower-level stakeholders, like operations managers or security risk managers, who are interested in the day-to-day operations, such as logging. Senior-level stakeholders might be more interested in the underlying risks, such as the potential financial burden of a security incident—as opposed to the details around logs.

When you communicate with an operations manager, make sure you address relevant information that relates to their daily responsibilities, such as anomalies in data logs that you are escalating. Concentrating on a manager’s daily responsibilities will help you communicate the need-to-know information to that individual.

## Communication methods

Your method of communication will vary, depending on the type of information you’re sharing. Knowing which communication channels are appropriate for different scenarios is a great skill to help you communicate effectively with stakeholders. Here are a few ways you might choose to communicate:

- Instant messaging
- Emailing
- Video calling
- Phone calls
- Sharing a spreadsheet of data
- Sharing a slideshow presentation

If your message is straightforward, an instant message or phone call might be the route to take. If you have to describe a complex situation with multiple layers, an email or in-person meeting might be the better option. If you’re providing a lot of data and numbers, sharing a graph might be the best solution. Each situation helps you determine the best means of communication.

# Create visual dashboards for impactful cybersecurity communications

## Using visuals to communicate effectively

Security is about protecting a company from threats that can affect its reputation and finances. Oftentimes, responding to threats quickly and effectively depends on clear communications between the stakeholders who are involved.

In the cybersecurity field, the stakeholders you'll deal with will often be busy with other responsibilities. Showing them important information visually is a great way to gain their input and support to address security challenges that arise. Visuals help provide these decision-makers with actionable information that can help them identify potential risks to the organization's security posture.

### Visual dashboards

A **visual dashboard** is a way of displaying various types of data quickly in one place. Visual dashboards are useful tools that can be used to communicate stories to stakeholders about security events—especially when they involve numbers and data.

Dashboards can be simple or complex depending on the information you're communicating. A simple dashboard might contain a single chart, while a complex one can include multiple detailed charts, graphs, and tables. Deciding which type to use will depend on the situation and story you are telling. However, attention to detail and accurately representing information is important anytime you're communicating data to stakeholders.

**Pro tip**: Programs like Google Sheets and Apache OpenOffice are tools that can be used to create visual dashboards.

## When to use visual communication

Security is often a team effort. Everyone must work together to ensure an organization is properly protected from bad actors. Knowing how to communicate with your colleagues is a big part of the team-focused aspect.

Sometimes it’s enough to send a simple email update. Other times you might want to include a document attachment that further elaborates on a specific topic. A simple phone call can also be valuable because it allows you to quickly communicate the necessary information without having to wait for a response to an email or message. Other times, the best way to communicate is through visuals.

For example, consider a situation where your supervisor has asked you to provide them with results from a recent internal audit of five different departments within the organization. The audit gathered data showing how many phishing emails each department clicked over the last five months. This is an ideal opportunity to tell this story using visualization tools. Instead of sending an email that simply describes what the findings are, a graph or chart will clearly illustrate those findings, making them easier for the stakeholder to understand quickly and easily.

# Juliana’s story: Effective communication

Throughout this course, you’ve been following the story of Juliana Soto. Juliana was recently hired as a cybersecurity analyst by Right-On-Time Payment Solutions, a payment processing company that handles sensitive customer information.

## Communicating with stakeholders after an incident

Days after escalating the two incidents, Juliana’s manager asks her to communicate information about the incidents to stakeholders.

### Communicating about incident #1

One of the incidents dealt with an employee being locked out of their account due to multiple failed login attempts. Juliana’s manager was recently asked to provide a report that reviews how many departments have experienced locked employee accounts due to failed login attempts over the last month. The security team shared data that details the number of locked employee accounts due to multiple failed login attempts from five different departments.

Juliana’s manager will report the information to the senior executives of each of the five departments. The manager asks Juliana to display the data in a way that communicates the incident clearly to these stakeholders. For this task, Juliana decides to put together a visual dashboard to represent the data because the communication is primarily focused on numbers. Her dashboard will use charts and graphs to relay important information, like the number of employees who have been locked out of their accounts in the last month. Juliana's visual dashboard makes it easier for the high-level stakeholders to review incident #1 and determine a course of action.

### Communicating about incident #2

Juliana’s manager has also been informed that the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) wants more information about what took place during the second incident, which involved an attacker almost compromising a system that stores customers’ private data. This communication will include a more detailed report that establishes what processes and procedures worked well during attackers' attempts to compromise the system and what processes and procedures might need to be revised. Because this is a more detailed communication, Juliana decides to put together a detailed document with timelines that clearly explain what happened. The document also includes her thoughts on what the security team, data owners, and data processors could have done differently to protect the system in question. She shares the report with her manager so they can review it.

# Quiz: Module 3 Challenge

## Questions

1. What is a stakeholder?
   1. An individual or a group that manages the public relations crisis for an organization
   2. An individual or a group that has an interest in any decision or activity of an organization
   3. A customer who depends on an organization to protect their sensitive financial and medical data
   4. The security professionals who manage the SOC operations for an organization
2. Which individuals are considered security stakeholders? Select three answers.
   1. Risk managers
   2. Operations Managers
   3. Help desk analysts
   4. Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs)
3. A security operations manager often works directly with a security analyst as the first line of defense to protect an organization from what challenges? Select two answers.
   1. Risks
   2. A lack of an employee consortium
   3. Vulnerabilities
   4. The use of social media on work devices
4. Which of the following statements best describes the information that is communicated to stakeholders?
   1. It is proprietary.
   2. It is shareable to the entire organization.
   3. It is sensitive.
   4. It is publicly available.
5. You are alerted that a malicious actor has gained unauthorized access to one of your organization’s manufacturing applications. You need to inform the operations manager as soon as possible. What is the best way to communicate this information?
   1. With a dashboard visualization
   2. With a letter to HR
   3. Clearly, concisely, and quickly
   4. With a corporate-wide email
6. Which potential security challenges should a security analyst communicate to security stakeholders?
   1. Malicious code detected in logs
   2. Negative social media reviews
   3. Lack of employee retention
   4. Negative publicity about non-security related issues that has been posted on the internet
7. Fill in the blank: Visual communications to stakeholders can be used to convey key details in the form of \_\_\_\_.
   1. text-filled documents and graphs
   2. text messages and charts
   3. logs and alerts
   4. graphs and charts
8. Why is it important for analysts to use visuals to tell a security story?
   1. Visuals can help an analyst prioritize which incidents need to be escalated with more or less urgency.
   2. Visuals can help an analyst determine which tool to use to solve a security challenge.
   3. Visuals can help an analyst communicate impactful metrics and data.
   4. Visuals can help an analyst identify which details are most important for different stakeholders.
9. Fill in the blank: In the field of security, it is important to communicate **\_** with care.
   1. sensitive information
   2. time off requests
   3. nonsensitive information
   4. publicly available information
10. What is the best way to follow-up with a stakeholder who has not immediately responded to your email? Select two answers.
    1. Send them an instant message
    2. Call them on the phone
    3. File a complaint with human resources
    4. Report the issue to your supervisor

## Answers

1. 2
2. 1, 2 & 4
3. 1 & 3
4. 3
5. 3
6. 1
7. 4
8. 3
9. 1
10. 1 & 2
