- [Strategies for engaging with the cybersecurity community](#strategies-for-engaging-with-the-cybersecurity-community)
  - [Security organizations and conferences](#security-organizations-and-conferences)
    - [Find the right organization](#find-the-right-organization)
    - [Begin the search](#begin-the-search)
    - [Use social media](#use-social-media)
    - [Be aware of social engineering](#be-aware-of-social-engineering)
    - [Mailing lists for security](#mailing-lists-for-security)
- [Explore cybersecurity organizations](#explore-cybersecurity-organizations)
  - [Activity Overview](#activity-overview)
  - [Scenario](#scenario)
  - [Step-By-Step Instructions](#step-by-step-instructions)
    - [Step 1: Access the template](#step-1-access-the-template)
    - [Step 2: Write down your cybersecurity topics of interest](#step-2-write-down-your-cybersecurity-topics-of-interest)
    - [Step 3: Identify three security organizations and highlight their objectives](#step-3-identify-three-security-organizations-and-highlight-their-objectives)
    - [Step 4: Explain which organization fits your interest the most and why](#step-4-explain-which-organization-fits-your-interest-the-most-and-why)
    - [Pro Tip: Save the template](#pro-tip-save-the-template)
    - [What to Include in Your Response](#what-to-include-in-your-response)
  - [Activity Exemplar](#activity-exemplar)
- [Connect with other cybersecurity professionals](#connect-with-other-cybersecurity-professionals)
  - [LinkedIn® with CISOs](#linkedin-with-cisos)
  - [Finding other security professionals on LinkedIn®](#finding-other-security-professionals-on-linkedin)
- [Quiz: Module 4 Challenge](#quiz-module-4-challenge)
  - [Questions](#questions)
  - [Answers](#answers)

# Strategies for engaging with the cybersecurity community

- [CSO Online](https://www.csoonline.com/asean/)
- [Krebs on Security](https://krebsonsecurity.com/)
- [DarkReading](https://www.darkreading.com/)

## Security organizations and conferences

Attending security conferences and joining organizations gives you the opportunity to gain knowledge from seasoned professionals who are constantly seeking out new ways to improve on their security strategies and techniques.

### Find the right organization

What security organization should you join? This question depends on your specific interest in security. Are you someone who wants to focus on reacting to security incidents or preventing them from happening? Are you interested in forensic security or data logging? Do you have aspirations of being a CISO one day? It’s important to have a clear understanding of what your interests are before you narrow down your search for a cybersecurity organization or conference.

### Begin the search

Once you understand what your interests are, do a web search for organizations or conferences in your area. For example, you can type in “incident response cybersecurity conferences in my area.” This search will give you a list of cybersecurity conferences focused on incident response. If you’re interested in forensic security, you can type “forensic security organizations in my area” or a similar phrase into your web search engine. No matter what your interests are, you can do a web search online to find a cybersecurity organization or conference focused on that area.

### Use social media

Social media is another great way to find cybersecurity organizations or conferences. [LinkedIn®](https://www.linkedin.com), for example, is a social media platform that connects business professionals with one another. You can use LinkedIn® to find security groups or organizations to join. In the LinkedIn® search bar, you can try search queries such as:

- “Incident response cybersecurity groups”
- “Organizations for cybersecurity analysts”

### Be aware of social engineering

While social media is a good way to connect with other professionals in the security industry, it’s also important to be mindful that hackers use social media to trick users into giving up private information. You've previously learned that social engineering is a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables. To protect yourself from social engineering when using social media to find resources, always remember not to click on unexpected links or attachments sent from unfamiliar users on social media.

### Mailing lists for security

Another great way to stay connected with the security industry is to sign up for different cybersecurity mailing lists. These mailing lists send out information periodically on various security topics. The Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) offers two cybersecurity mailing lists for you to join:

- A list focused on security threat information, best practices for cybersecurity, and analysis from CISA’s domestic and international security partners
- A list providing weekly summaries of new vulnerabilities that might pose a risk to an organization’s network

# Explore cybersecurity organizations

## Activity Overview

In this activity, you will identify the areas of cybersecurity that interest you most. Then, you will explore various cybersecurity organizations related to those interests and determine which ones most appropriately fit your interest and skill set.

As you learned earlier, engaging with the security community through various security organizations and conferences is a great way to stay up-to-date on current security news. By staying informed about security trends, you can more effectively identify and develop remediation strategies to address a wide range of security challenges. Taking this approach can help you advance your career by familiarizing yourself with what’s going on in the security world.

Be sure to complete this activity before moving on. The next course item will provide you with a completed exemplar to compare to your own work.

## Scenario

Review the following background information. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

It’s a useful practice to find a security organization to join during the job searching process. Doing so will help you engage with the security community while you’re seeking employment.

The first step in choosing a security organization you might like to join is to reflect on what areas in cybersecurity interest you most. After you’ve identified a few topics, the next step is to search for organizations related to those topics online. Once you’ve done research into a few different organizations that are relevant to your interests, it’s important to write what stood out to you and why. This will give you an opportunity to review your notes at a later time to help you determine which organizations most closely align well with the areas in cybersecurity that interests you the most

## Step-By-Step Instructions

Follow the instructions and answer the question below to complete the activity. Then, go to the next course item to compare your work to a completed exemplar.

### Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the following link and select Use Template.

Link to template: [Security organization worksheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kQyit7VgIC9k-Kc-U5XCarqZmQJ3664g-pBX2RKq7O0/template/preview)

### Step 2: Write down your cybersecurity topics of interest

In **Part 1** of the security organization worksheet, list your areas of interest in the cybersecurity profession. For example, these are some areas you might consider:

- Raising security awareness
- Protecting sensitive data
- Cloud security

You can include **at least three topics**, but you may include more if you like. Typically two or three topics is ideal. That way, you can keep focused on a specific aspect of the security field.

**Note**: Think back to the different security topics throughout this certificate program such as cloud security, incident response, forensic security, etc. You can also review a summary of topics discussed in each course on the [Google Cybersecurity Professional Certificate main page](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-cybersecurity#courses)

### Step 3: Identify three security organizations and highlight their objectives

Spend some time researching security organizations online. Use keywords of the interests you previously listed to help with your search. For example, "data encryption organizations," or "vulnerability management." Pay close attention to the objectives and goals of the organizations you research and try to identify ones that align with the interests you identified in Part 1 of the worksheet

Choose three organizations that align most closely with your interests. Then, add their **names** and **brief descriptions (20-40 words)** of their objectives to **Part 2** of the worksheet.

**Note**: Consider the “about us” page on the organization’s website. That typically will have mission statements and areas of focus for the organization.

### Step 4: Explain which organization fits your interest the most and why

In **Part 3** of the security organization worksheet, write **1-2 sentences (20-40 words)** explaining how each organization does (or does not) relate to your interests. Then, clearly identify one organization that most closely aligns with your interest and goals in cybersecurity.

Note: Keep in mind that it's just as important to determine which organization does not fit your needs as much as it is to determine the organization that does fit your needs. Even though an organization may match your professional interests, it does not necessarily mean that organization is a good match for what you’re looking for.

### Pro Tip: Save the template

Finally, be sure to save a blank copy of the template you used to complete this activity. You can use it for further practice or in your job search. These templates will be a good guide for you as you move forward with joining a security organization in order to stay engaged with the security community.

### What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to include the following elements in your completed activity:

- At least three cybersecurity topics of interest.
- The names of three security organizations and their objectives.
- One organization that fits your interest the most. Be sure to explain why.

## Activity Exemplar

To review the exemplar for this course item, click the following link and select Use Template.

Link to exemplar: [Security organization worksheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19Si_HFGcy8xn29FR6c1FVrUKBnpoBux0QqSfZVTEz3o/template/preview)

Compare the exemplar to your completed security organization worksheet. Review your work using each of the criteria in the exemplar. What did you do well? Where can you improve? Use your answers to these questions to guide you as you continue to progress through the course.

**Note**: The exemplar represents one possible way to complete the activity. Yours will likely differ in certain ways. What’s important is that you’re able to identify what your interests are in security and match those interests with the appropriate organization that focuses on your interests in security.

The exemplar details specific areas in cybersecurity that may be of interest to an individual who is interested in cloud computing, data protection, and incident response. It also lists three specific security organizations that an individual with these interests can join. Both the types of interest in security and the chosen security organization may differ from what you may find appropriate to your situation. However, the important concept to keep in mind is aligning your interests in security with those of a security organization that focuses on the same topics. For example, if you’re interested in incident response, it would be a good idea to find a security organization that focuses on various incident response strategies, concepts, and objectives.

There are an endless amount of security organizations you can be a part of. Finding the right one depends on your specific interests within cybersecurity!

# Connect with other cybersecurity professionals

## LinkedIn® with CISOs

Earlier in the program, you learned about Chief Information Security Officers, also known as CISOs. It’s their job to be up-to-date on every aspect of security, including all of the latest trends and news in the security world. With this in mind, it’s a great idea to follow CISOs on LinkedIn® professional networking services. When you follow a CISO on social media, you’ll have an opportunity to discover the kinds of information they share with their audience. That information might provide you with useful tips and relevant news. Staying informed about security news and trends can help progress your cybersecurity career because it helps sharpen your security mindset.

## Finding other security professionals on LinkedIn®

Whether you’d like to connect with other entry-level analysts or more seasoned professionals, LinkedIn® is a great way to connect with others. When connecting with others, it’s important to send a well-written message. This message can help the person understand your intentions. It also helps people determine that you’re not a scammer looking to exploit them. Here are a few tips to help you write your first message in a way that engages and interests the recipient:

- Use a conversational tone.
- Provide a clear reason for wanting to connect.
- Avoid spelling and grammatical errors.

Here is an example of an effective LinkedIn® message to send to a security professional:

“Hi, Tim. I recently completed the Google Cybersecurity Certificate program, and I’d like to connect with other security professionals. It seems like you have a lot of experience in the security industry that I can learn from. Let’s keep in touch!”

This example provides a clear reason for why you want to connect with this person and is presented in a conversational tone. You also did not give the impression that you are a scammer by asking the person to do something suspicious to connect with you, like downloading an unusual file attachment.

# Quiz: Module 4 Challenge

## Questions

1. Fill in the blank: The **\_** is a standard awareness document that lists the top 10 most critical security risks to web applications.
   1. Programming for Security Protection
   2. OWASP
   3. Wall Street Journal
   4. Red Teaming Blog
2. Which security website covers security news and investigations into cyber attacks?
   1. Online CISO
   2. Kreb’s Security Perspective
   3. Krebs on Security
   4. Security Investigation by Krebs
3. Which site do many CISOs in the security industry review for security tips and ideas?
   1. CSO Tips for Beginners
   2. The CSO Security Expert Digest
   3. CSO Online
   4. The Security CISO Online
4. Fill in the blank: Although many security websites and blogs provide different relevant security tips, **\_** specifically provides information on analytics and application security, mobile and cloud security, and the Internet of Things (IoT).
   1. Kreb’s Cloud Security Blog
   2. Krebs on Security
   3. Dark Reading
   4. CSO Online
5. You’ve recently completed the Google Cybersecurity Certificate and decide it’s time to connect with other security professionals. Which of the following is a great way to connect with security professionals?
   1. Calling different organizations and asking to speak with their security teams
   2. Staying away from social media
   3. Searching for them on social media
   4. Asking friends and family members who are not in the security industry to connect you with people they know
6. Fill in the blank: **\_** is a great way to connect with security professionals on social media.
   1. Reading CISO posts on social media
   2. Responding to unfamiliar messages
   3. Attempting to hack a security team member and resolving that hack in a timely fashion
   4. Reading and commenting on the social media posts of leaders in the security industry
7. Which of the following is a good first step to finding a CISO to follow on social media?
   1. Conduct an internet search for the name of the CISO of an organization
   2. Ask friends in the e-commerce industry about which CISOs to follow
   3. Send multiple messages to a company on their social media page and ask how to contact their CISO directly
   4. Conduct a background check on CISOs in your area
8. What is a good way to find other security analysts in the industry to follow on social media?
   1. Cold call various security teams until someone agrees to connect with you on social media
   2. Put out a social media post that asks all security analysts to follow you
   3. Search for security engineers on LinkedIn®
   4. Search for cybersecurity analysts on LinkedIn®
9. What is a great way to connect with security professionals or find mentors in the security industry without using social media?
   1. Search for CISOs on LinkedIn®
   2. Join different security associations
   3. Do an internet search for entry-level security analysts in your area
   4. Attend a social media training seminar
10. Fill in the blank: When determining a security association to join, it's important to **\_**.
    1. join one that is closest to where you live, so you’re able to attend in person
    2. select one that is geared towards advanced security professionals
    3. ask the CISO of the most recent organization you applied to for suggestions
    4. select one that aligns with your professional goals

## Answers

1. 2
2. 3
3. 3
4. 3
5. 3
6. 4
7. 1
8. 4
9. 2
10. 4
