- [Get to know Python](#get-to-know-python)
  - [Python in cybersecurity](#python-in-cybersecurity)
- [Python environments](#python-environments)
  - [Common notebook environments](#common-notebook-environments)
- [Data types](#data-types)
- [Assign and reassign variables](#assign-and-reassign-variables)
  - [Best practices for naming variables](#best-practices-for-naming-variables)
- [Conditionals](#conditionals)
  - [`if`, `else` \& `elif` statements](#if-else--elif-statements)
  - [Logical operators (`and`, `or` \& `not`) for multiple conditions](#logical-operators-and-or--not-for-multiple-conditions)
- [loops (iterative statement)](#loops-iterative-statement)
  - [`for`, `while` \& `range`](#for-while--range)
  - [Integers \& boolean values](#integers--boolean-values)
  - [`break` \& `continue`](#break--continue)
- [Quiz: Module 1 Challenge](#quiz-module-1-challenge)
  - [Questions Set 1](#questions-set-1)
  - [Answers Set 1](#answers-set-1)

# Get to know Python

[Reference guide: Python concepts from module 1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1g01BIeiQtyFillHBNQMegGjbSzePkCj8nT-O4v1k8Gs/template/preview?resourcekey=0-VdiTfxrHUssEh0I7P2z4LQ)

Python code must be converted through an interpreter before the computer can process it. An **interpreter** is a computer program that translates Python code into runnable instructions line by line.

**Syntax** refers to the rules that determine what is correctly structured in a computing language.

## Python in cybersecurity

In cybersecurity, Python is used especially for automation. Automation is the use of technology to reduce human and manual effort to perform common and repetitive tasks. These are some specific areas of cybersecurity in which Python might be used to automate specific tasks:

- Log analysis
- Malware analysis
- Access control list management
- Intrusion detection
- Compliance checks
- Network scanning

# Python environments

You can run Python through a variety of environments. These environments include **notebooks**, **integrated development environments (IDEs)**, and the **command line**. This reading will introduce you to these environments. It will focus primarily on notebooks because this is how you'll interact with Python in this course.

## Common notebook environments

Two common notebook environments are [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/about) and [Google Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/) (or Google Colab). They allow you to run several programming languages, including Python.
Integrated development environments (IDEs)

Another option for writing Python code is through an **integrated development environment (IDE)**, or a software application for writing code that provides editing assistance and error correction tools. Integrated development environments include a graphical user interface (GUI) that provides programmers with a variety of options to customize and build their programs.

# Data types

- **String**: `"updates needed"`, `"20%"`, `"5.0"`, `"35"`, `"**/**/**"`, `""`
- **List**:
  - `[12, 36, 54, 1, 7]`
  - `["eraab", "arusso", "drosas"]`
  - `[True, False, True, True]`
  - `[15, "approved", True, 45.5, False]`
  - `[]`
- **Integer**: `-100` ,`-12`,`-1`,`0`,`1`,`20`,`500 `
- **Float**: `-2.2`,`-1.34`,`0.0`,`0.34 `
- **Boolean**: `True`, `False`
- **Tuple**:
  - **Examples**:
    - `("wjaffrey", "arutley", "dkot")`
    - `(46, 2, 13, 2, 8, 0, 0)`
    - `(True, False, True, True)`
    - `("wjaffrey", 13, True)`
  - A data structure that consists of a **collection of data that cannot be changed**.
  - Like lists, tuples can contain elements of varying data types.
  - **A difference between tuple data and list data is that it is possible to change the elements in a list, but it is not possible to change the elements in a tuple.**
  - **Tuples are more memory efficient than lists**, so they are useful when you are working with a large quantity of data.
- **Dictionary**: `{ 1: "East", 2: "West", 3: "North", 4: "South" }`
  - Data that consists of one or more key-value pairs.
- **Set**: `{"jlanksy", "drosas", "nmason"}`
  - Data that consists of an **unordered** collection of **unique** values.

# Assign and reassign variables

```py
username = "nzhao"
old_username = username
username = "zhao2"
print("Previous username:", old_username)
print("Current username:", username)
```

## Best practices for naming variables

- Use only letters, numbers, and underscores in variable names. Valid examples: `date_3`, `username`, `interval2`
- Remember that variable names in Python are case-sensitive. These are all different variables: `time`, `Time`, `TIME`, `timE`.
- Don't use Python’s built-in keywords or functions for variable names. For example, variables shouldn't be named `True`, `False`, or `if`.
- Separate two or more words with underscores. Valid examples: `login_attempts`, `invalid_user`, `status_update`
- Avoid variables with similar names. These variables could be easily confused with one another: `start_time`, `starting_time`, `time_starting`.
- Avoid unnecessarily long names for variables. For instance, don't give variables names like `variable_that_equals_3`.
- Names should describe the data and not be random words. Valid examples: `num_login_attempts`, `device_id`, `invalid_usernames`

# Conditionals

| operator |           use            |
| :------: | :----------------------: |
|    >     |       greater than       |
|    <     |        less than         |
|    >=    | greater than or equal to |
|    <=    |  less than or equal to   |
|    ==    |         equal to         |
|    !=    |       not equal to       |

## `if`, `else` & `elif` statements

```py
# `if` statements
if status == 200:
    print("OK")

# `else` statements
if status == 200:
    print("OK")
else:
    print("check other status")

# `elif` statements
if status == 200:
    print("OK")
elif status == 400:
    print("Bad Request")
elif status == 500:
    print("Internal Server Error")
else:
    print("check other status")
```

## Logical operators (`and`, `or` & `not`) for multiple conditions

```py
# `and`
if status >= 200 and status <= 226:
    print("successful response")

# `or`
if status == 100 or status == 102:
    print("informational response")

# `not`
if not(status >= 200 and status <= 226):
    print("check status")
```

# loops (iterative statement)

## `for`, `while` & `range`

```py
# for loops
for i in ["elarson", "bmoreno", "tshah", "sgilmore"]:
    print(i)

# Looping through a list
computer_assets = ["laptop1", "desktop20", "smartphone03"]
for asset in computer_assets:
    print(asset)

string = "security"
for character in string:
    print(character)

# Using  range()
# start point (inclusive), stop point (exclusive), and increment
for i in range(0, 5, 1):
    print(i)

for i in range(5):
    print(i)

# while loops
i = 1
while i < 5:
    print(i)
    i = i + 1
```

## Integers & boolean values

```py
# Integers in the loop condition
login_attempts = 0
while login_attempts < 5:
    print("Login attempts:", login_attempts)
    login_attempts = login_attempts + 1

# Boolean values in the loop condition
count = 0
login_status = True
while login_status == True:
    print("Try again.")
    count = count + 1
    if count == 4:
        login_status = False
```

## `break` & `continue`

```py
# break
computer_assets = ["laptop1", "desktop20", "smartphone03"]
for asset in computer_assets:
    if asset == "desktop20":
        break
    print(asset)

# computer_assets = ["laptop1", "desktop20", "smartphone03"]
for asset in computer_assets:
    if asset == "desktop20":
        continue
    print(asset)
```

# Quiz: Module 1 Challenge

## Questions

1. In a cybersecurity setting, which of these tasks would it be common to apply Python to? Select all that apply.
   1. Automating how a log is read when responding to an incident
   2. Manually checking individual timestamps in a log
   3. Automating several tasks from a playbook into one workstream 
   4. Reducing the effort needed to manage an access control list
2. What is wrong with the following code?

```py
print(username)
for username in failed_login:
```

   1. The first line should be split in two, and in failed_login: should be indented on the new line.
   2. Both lines are not indented.
   3. The line with print(username) is not indented.
   4. The line with for username in failed_login: is not indented.
3. Which of these are string data? Select all that apply.
   1. "100"
   2. 100
   3. [100, 200, 300]
   4. "user1"
4. What are possible values for the Boolean data type? Select all that apply.
   1. `>`
   2. `!=`
   3. `False`
   4. `True`
5. How do you assign the string value "rtp3426" to a variable called device_id?
   1. `device_id = rtp3426`
   2. `device_id("rtp3426")`
   3. `device_id(rtp3426)`
   4. `device_id = "rtp3426"`
6. What code can you use to return the data type of the value stored in the input variable?
   1. `print(input)`
   2. `print("type")`
   3. `type("string")`
   4. `type(input)`
7. You want to check the string stored in an `update_status` variable. When it contains a value of `"incomplete"`, you want to print a `"schedule update"` message. Right now, this conditional statement is not correct. What are the problems with this conditional statement? Select all that apply. 

  ```py
  if update_status != "incomplete"

      print("schedule update")
  ```

   1. The operator should not be !=. It should be ==. 
   2. There should be quotation marks around the variable `update_status`. 
   3. A colon (`:`) is missing at the end of the conditional header.
   4. The line with `print("schedule update")` should not be indented. 
8. Fill in the blank: An else statement _____. 
   1. executes when the condition in the `if` statement preceding it evaluates to `False`
   2. is required after every `if` statement 
   3. contains its own unique condition
   4. executes when the condition in the `if` statement preceding it evaluates to `True`
9. What iterative statement should you use if you want to print the numbers 1, 2, and 3?
   1.  
      ```py
      for i in (1,4):

          print(i)
      ```
   2.
      ```py
      for i in range(0,3):

          print(i)
      ```
   3.
      ```py
      for i in range(1,3):

          print(i)
      ```
   2. 
      ```py
      for i in [1,3]:

          print(i)
      ```
10.   If you want to run a loop that repeats if a count variable is less than 50, what code should your loop header contain?
while count < 50:

while count == 50:

print(50)

count = count + 50

## Answers

1. 1, 3 & 4
2. 3
3. 1 & 4
4. 3 & 4
5. 4
6. 4
7. 1 & 3
8. 1
9. 1
10. 1