- [Functions and variables](#functions-and-variables)
  - [Working with variables in functions](#working-with-variables-in-functions)
    - [Parameter](#parameter)
    - [Argument](#argument)
    - [`return`](#return)
  - [Global and local variables](#global-and-local-variables)
    - [Global variables](#global-variables)
    - [Local variables](#local-variables)
- [Built-in functions](#built-in-functions)
  - [`print()`, `type()`](#print-type)
  - [`max()` and `min()`](#max-and-min)
  - [`sorted()`](#sorted)
- [`analyze_logins` function](#analyze_logins-function)
- [Import modules and libraries in Python](#import-modules-and-libraries-in-python)
  - [Importing an entire Python Standard Library module](#importing-an-entire-python-standard-library-module)
  - [Importing specific functions from a module](#importing-specific-functions-from-a-module)
  - [External libraries](#external-libraries)
- [Ensure proper syntax and readability](#ensure-proper-syntax-and-readability)
  - [Comments](#comments)
- [Quiz: Module 2 Challenge](#quiz-module-2-challenge)
  - [Questions](#questions)
  - [Answers](#answers)

# Functions and variables

- [The Python Standard Library documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html)
- [Reference guide: Python concepts from module 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19kQXJP2L5P4_jBOhW8D9IyA4ewaQj1QWv1-Lp2HL0YU/template/preview?resourcekey=0-fcyLEIA6lINwqu6dTvTM0g#heading=h.6eikvmfmqupl)

```py
def display_investigation_message():
    print("investigate activity")

application_status = "potential concern"
email_status = "okay"

if application_status == "potential concern":
    print("application_log:")
    display_investigation_message()

if email_status == "potential concern":
    print("email log:")
```

## Working with variables in functions

```py
def remaining_login_attempts(maximum_attempts, total_attempts):
    return maximum_attempts - total_attempts
remaining_attempts = remaining_login_attempts(3, 3)
if remaining_attempts <= 0:
    print("Your account is locked")
```

### Parameter

A **parameter** is an object that is included in a function definition for use in that function. When you define a function, you create variables in the function header.

This function takes in two variables, `maximum_attempts` and `total_attempts` and uses them to perform a calculation. In this example, `maximum_attempts` and `total_attempts` are **parameters**.

### Argument

An **argument** is the data brought into a function when it is called.

When calling `remaining_login_attempts` in the following example, the integers `3` and `2` are considered **arguments**:

`remaining_login_attempts(3, 2)`

### `return`

The `return` keyword is used to return information from a function.

In the following example, it is before the calculation of how many login attempts remain:

```py
def remaining_login_attempts(maximum_attempts, total_attempts):
    return maximum_attempts - total_attempts
```

## Global and local variables

If you reuse the name of a global variable within a function, it will create a new local variable with that name. In other words, there will be both a global variable with that name and a local variable with that name, and they'll have different values.

```py
username = "elarson"
print("1:" + username)
def greet():
    username = "bmoreno"
    print("2:" + username)
greet()
print("3:" + username)

# 1:elarson
# 2:bmoreno
# 3:elarson
```

### Global variables

A **global variable** is a variable that is available through the entire program. Global variables are assigned outside of a function definition. Whenever that variable is called, whether inside or outside a function, it will return the value it is assigned.

### Local variables

A **local variable** is a variable assigned within a function. These variables cannot be called or accessed outside of the body of a function. Local variables include parameters as well as other variables assigned within a function definition.

# Built-in functions

## `print()`, `type()`

`print(type("This is a string"))`

## `max()` and `min()`

```py
time_list = [12, 2, 32, 19, 57, 22, 14]
print(min(time_list))
print(max(time_list))
```

## `sorted()`

```py
time_list = [12, 2, 32, 19, 57, 22, 14]
print(sorted(time_list))
print(time_list)
```

# `analyze_logins` function

```py
# Define a function named `analyze_logins()` that takes in three parameters, `username`, `current_day_logins`, and `average_day_logins`

def analyze_logins(username, current_day_logins, average_day_logins):
    print("Current day login total for", username, "is", current_day_logins)
    print("Average logins per day for", username, "is", average_day_logins)
    # Calculate the ratio of the logins made on the current day to the logins made on an average day, storing in a variable named `login_ratio`
    login_ratio = current_day_logins / average_day_logins
    return login_ratio

login_analysis = analyze_logins("ejones", 9, 3)
if login_analysis >= 3:
    print("Alert! This account has more login activity than normal.")
```

# Import modules and libraries in Python

A **module** is a Python file that contains additional functions, variables, classes, and any kind of runnable code.

A **library** is a collection of modules that provide code users can access in their programs.

## Importing an entire Python Standard Library module

```py
import statistics
monthly_failed_attempts = [20, 17, 178, 33, 15, 21, 19, 29, 32, 15, 25, 19]
median_failed_attempts = statistics.median(monthly_failed_attempts)
print("median:", median_failed_attempts)
```

## Importing specific functions from a module

```py
from statistics import mean, median
monthly_failed_attempts = [20, 17, 178, 33, 15, 21, 19, 29, 32, 15, 25, 19]
mean_failed_attempts = mean(monthly_failed_attempts)
print("mean:", mean_failed_attempts)
median_failed_attempts = median(monthly_failed_attempts)
print("median:", median_failed_attempts)
```

## External libraries

```py
# pip install numpy
import numpy
```

# Ensure proper syntax and readability

[PEP 8 - Style Guide for Python Code](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/)

## Comments

According to the PEP 8 style guide, it’s best practice to keep all lines in Python under 79 characters to maintain readability, and this includes comments.

**Single-line comments** in Python begin with the (#) symbol.

**Multi-line comments** are used when you need more than 79 characters in a single comment.

Another way of writing multi-line comments is by using documentation strings and not assigning them to a variable. Documentation strings, also called docstrings, are strings that are written over multiple lines and are used to document code. To create a documentation string, use triple quotation marks (`""" """`).

The PEP 8 style guide recommends that indentations should be **four spaces** long.

# Quiz: Module 2 Challenge

## Questions

1. Fill in the blank: To define a function, you should place the keyword **\_** before the function name.
   1. return
   2. def
   3. type
   4. in
2. Which of the following components are needed to call a built-in function in Python? Select three answers.
   1. The function name
   2. The arguments required by the function
   3. `()`
   4. :
3. What is a parameter?
   1. A variable returned from a function
   2. The name of a function that is being defined
   3. The data brought into a function when it is called
   4. An object that is included in a function definition for use in that function
4. Fill in the blank: A collection of modules that users can access in their programs is a **\_**.
   1. library
   2. built-in function
   3. style guide
   4. user-defined function
5. What does this line of code return? `print(max(1,3,7))`
   1. `1`
   2. `11`
   3. `3`
   4. `7`
6. What is returned from the following user-defined function if you pass it the argument of 2?

```py
def multiples(num):
    multiple = num * 3
    return multiple
multiples(2)
```

   1.  `num`
   2.  `2`
   3.  `multiples`
   4.  `6`
7.  What does PEP 8 contain?
    1.  Stylistic guidelines for programmers working in Python
    2.  A collection of modules that users can access in their programs
    3.  Suggestions for making Python easier to learn
    4.  Files with additional functions users can use in their code
8.  What should you do when writing comments? Select all that apply.
    1.  Only place them at the beginning of a program.
    2.  Place them before every line of code.
    3.  Make them clear.
    4.  Keep them up-to-date.
9.  What is a function?
    1.  A reusable section of code
    2.  A Python file that contains runnable code
    3.  A set of stylistic guidelines for working in Python
    4.  A downloadable resource with code instructions
10.  Fill in the blank: A Python file that contains additional functions, variables, classes, and any kind of runnable code is called a **\_**.
    1.  library
    2.  module
    3.  built-in function
    4.  parameter

## Answers

1. 2
2. 1, 2 & 3
3. 4
4. 1
5. 4
6. 4
7. 1
8. 3 & 4
9. 1
10. 2
