- [Import files](#import-files)
  - [`with` \& `open`](#with--open)
  - [`"w"` \& `"a"`](#w--a)
- [Parsing](#parsing)
  - [`.split()`](#split)
  - [`.join()`](#join)
- [IP Access Cleaner: Automating Restricted Content Updates](#ip-access-cleaner-automating-restricted-content-updates)
- [Update a file through a Python algorithm](#update-a-file-through-a-python-algorithm)
  - [Activity Overview](#activity-overview)
  - [Scenario](#scenario)
  - [Step-By-Step Instructions](#step-by-step-instructions)
    - [Step 1: Access the template](#step-1-access-the-template)
    - [Step 2: Access supporting materials](#step-2-access-supporting-materials)
    - [Step 3: Open the file that contains the allow list](#step-3-open-the-file-that-contains-the-allow-list)
    - [Step 4: Read the file contents](#step-4-read-the-file-contents)
    - [Step 5: Convert the string into a list](#step-5-convert-the-string-into-a-list)
    - [Step 6: Iterate through the remove list](#step-6-iterate-through-the-remove-list)
    - [Step 7: Remove IP addresses that are on the remove list](#step-7-remove-ip-addresses-that-are-on-the-remove-list)
    - [Step 8: Update the file with the revised list of IP addresses](#step-8-update-the-file-with-the-revised-list-of-ip-addresses)
    - [Step 9: Finalize your document](#step-9-finalize-your-document)
      - [Pro Tip: Save a copy of your work](#pro-tip-save-a-copy-of-your-work)
      - [What to Include in Your Response](#what-to-include-in-your-response)
    - [Step 10: Assess your activity](#step-10-assess-your-activity)
  - [Activity Exemplar](#activity-exemplar)
- [Explore debugging techniques](#explore-debugging-techniques)
  - [Types of errors](#types-of-errors)
    - [Syntax errors](#syntax-errors)
    - [Logic errors](#logic-errors)
    - [Exceptions](#exceptions)
  - [Debugging strategies](#debugging-strategies)
    - [Debuggers](#debuggers)
    - [Use print statements](#use-print-statements)
- [Quiz: Module 4 Challenge](#quiz-module-4-challenge)
  - [Questions](#questions)
  - [Answers](#answers)

# Import files

[Reference guide: Python concepts from module 7](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YQRiQ2nTc7rr1bPpgezVxLt78YqaiwCgOMJcH3R35Yk/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.6eikvmfmqupl)

## `with` & `open`

The keyword `with` handles errors and manages external resources when used with other functions. In this case, it's used with the `open()` function in order to open a file. It will then manage the resources by closing the file after exiting the `with` statement.

**Note**: You can also use the `open()` function without the `with` keyword. However, you should close the file you opened to ensure proper handling of the file.

```py
with open("/home/analyst/logs/access_log.txt", "r") as file:
    updates = file.read()
print(updates)
```

The `.read()` method converts files into strings. This is necessary in order to use and display the contents of the file that was read.

## `"w"` & `"a"`

`"w"` argument when you want to replace the contents of an existing file.

`"a"` argument if you want to append new information to the end of an existing file rather than writing over it

```py
line = "jrafael,192.168.243.140,4:56:27,True"
with open("access_log.txt", "a") as file:
    file.write(line)
```

# Parsing

**Parsing** is the process of converting data into a more readable format. Data may need to become more readable in a couple of different ways.

## `.split()`

The `.split()` method converts a string into a list. It separates the string based on a specified character that's passed into `.split()` as an argument.

```py
approved_users = "elarson,bmoreno,tshah,sgilmore,eraab"
print("before .split():", approved_users)
approved_users = approved_users.split(",")
print("after .split():", approved_users)
# before .split(): elarson,bmoreno,tshah,sgilmore,eraab
# after .split(): ['elarson', 'bmoreno', 'tshah', 'sgilmore', 'eraab']

with open("update_log.txt", "r") as file:
    updates = file.read()
updates = updates.split()
```

## `.join()`

The `.join()` method concatenates the elements of an iterable into a string.

```py
approved_users = ["elarson", "bmoreno", "tshah", "sgilmore", "eraab"]
print("before .join():", approved_users)
approved_users = ",".join(approved_users)
print("after .join():", approved_users)

with open("update_log.txt", "r") as file:
    updates = file.read()
updates = updates.split()

updates = " ".join(updates)
with open("update_log.txt", "w") as file:
    file.write(updates)
```

# IP Access Cleaner: Automating Restricted Content Updates

```py
# An algorithm that parses this text file of IP addresses and updates the file by
# removing that addresses that no longer have access to the restricted content
def update_file(import_file, remove_list):
  with open(import_file, "r") as file:
    ip_addresses = file.read()

  # Use `.split()` to convert `ip_addresses` from a string to a list
  ip_addresses = ip_addresses.split()
  for element in ip_addresses:
    if element in remove_list:
      ip_addresses.remove(element)

  # Convert `ip_addresses` back to a string so that it can be written into the text file
  ip_addresses = " ".join(ip_addresses)

  with open(import_file, "w") as file:
    file.write(ip_addresses)

update_file("allow_list.txt", ["192.168.25.60", "192.168.140.81", "192.168.203.198"])

with open("allow_list.txt", "r") as file:
  text = file.read()
print(text)
```

# Update a file through a Python algorithm

## Activity Overview

In this activity, you will create a new portfolio document to demonstrate your experience using Python to develop algorithms that involve opening files and parsing their contents. You can add this document to your cybersecurity portfolio, which you can share with prospective employers or recruiters. To review the importance of building a professional portfolio and options for creating your portfolio, read [Create a cybersecurity portfolio](https://www.coursera.org/learn/automate-cybersecurity-tasks-with-python/resources/Xku4r).

To create your portfolio document, you will review a scenario and follow a series of steps. This scenario is connected to the [Create another algorithm](https://www.coursera.org/learn/automate-cybersecurity-tasks-with-python/ungradedLab/aeLOb/activity-create-another-algorithm) lab that you have just completed. You will explain the code you developed in that lab, and this will help you prepare for future job interviews and other steps in the hiring process.

Be sure to complete this activity before moving on. The next course item will provide you with a completed exemplar to compare to your own work.

## Scenario

Review the following scenario. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

You are a security professional working at a health care company. As part of your job, you're required to regularly update a file that identifies the employees who can access restricted content. The contents of the file are based on who is working with personal patient records. Employees are restricted access based on their IP address. There is an allow list for IP addresses permitted to sign into the restricted subnetwork. There's also a remove list that identifies which employees you must remove from this allow list.

Your task is to create an algorithm that uses Python code to check whether the allow list contains any IP addresses identified on the remove list. If so, you should remove those IP addresses from the file containing the allow list.

**Note**: This scenario involves developing the same algorithm that is developed in Tasks 2-7 of the [Create another algorithm](https://www.coursera.org/learn/automate-cybersecurity-tasks-with-python/ungradedLab/aeLOb/activity-create-another-algorithm) lab. (You do not need to reference Task 1 and Tasks 8-10 of the lab to complete this portfolio activity.) You should revisit the lab to get screenshots to include in your portfolio document.

## Step-By-Step Instructions

Follow the instructions to complete each step of the activity. Then, answer the 9 questions at the end of the activity before going to the next course item to compare your work to a completed exemplar.

### Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link and select Use Template. (In this step, you will just open the template. More instructions for how to use the template will be included in later steps.)

Link to template: [Algorithm for file updates in Python](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-Q-6rek0szuKKyRs_AAK5ro7cdmVlJD0yW2hpufvnfc/template/preview?resourcekey=0-XV3nkFwTldiFYpmrae81xw)

### Step 2: Access supporting materials

The following supporting material will help you complete this activity. The document **Instructions for including Python code** provides instructions and best practices for including samples of Python code in your portfolio activity. Keep it open as you proceed to the next steps.

To use the supporting material for this course item, click the link and select Use Template.

Link to supporting material: [Instructions for including Python code](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tTVskxQNITcJUpJww89g9S7fjWtBQ70bpM_joqj_wAA/template/preview?resourcekey=0-07GgZc_37Zqj6SFJi8CxSQ)

### Step 3: Open the file that contains the allow list

The file that you want to open is called `"allow_list.txt"`. Assign a string containing this file name to the `import_file` variable. Then, use a `with` statement to open it. Use the variable `file` to store the file while you work with it inside the with statement.

Describe the Python syntax, functions, and keywords you need to accomplish this in the **Open the file that contains the allow list** section of the **Algorithm for file updates in Python** template. In the **Task 2** section of **Create another algorithm** lab, take a screenshot of this portion of your code. Or, type this code directly into the template.

### Step 4: Read the file contents

Next, use the `.read()` method to convert the contents of the allow list file into a string so that you can read them. Store this string in a variable called `ip_addresses`.

Describe the Python syntax, functions, and keywords you need to accomplish this in the **Read the file contents** section of the **Algorithm for file updates in Python** template. In the **Task 3** section of the **Create another algorithm** lab, take a screenshot of this portion of your code. Or, type this code directly into the template.

### Step 5: Convert the string into a list

In order to remove individual IP addresses from the allow list, the IP addresses need to be in a list format. Therefore, use the `.split()` method to convert the `ip_addresses` string into a list.

Describe the Python syntax, functions, and keywords you need to accomplish this in the **Convert the string into a list** section of the **Algorithm for file updates in Python** template. In the **Task 4** section of the **Create another algorithm** lab, take a screenshot of this portion of your code. Or, type this code directly into the template.

### Step 6: Iterate through the remove list

A second list called `remove_list` contains all of the IP addresses that should be removed from the `ip_addresses` list. Set up the header of a `for` loop that will iterate through the `remove_list`. Use `element` as the loop variable.

Describe the Python syntax, functions, and keywords you need to accomplish this in the **Iterate through the remove list** section of the **Algorithm for file updates in Python** template. In the **Task 5** section of the **Create another algorithm** lab, take a screenshot of this portion of your code. Or, type this code directly into the template.

### Step 7: Remove IP addresses that are on the remove list

In the body of your iterative statement, add code that will remove all the IP addresses from the allow list that are also on the remove list. First, create a conditional that evaluates if the loop variable `element` is part of the `ip_addresses` list. Then, within that conditional, apply the `.remove()` method to the `ip_addresses` list and remove the IP addresses identified in the loop variable element.

Describe the Python syntax, functions, and keywords you need to accomplish this in the **Remove IP addresses that are on the remove list** section of the **Algorithm for file updates in Python** template. In the **Task 6** section of the **Create another algorithm** lab, take a screenshot of this portion of your code. Or, type this code directly into the template.

In addition, include a sentence that explains that applying the `.remove()` method in this way is possible because there are no duplicates in the `ip_addresses` list.

### Step 8: Update the file with the revised list of IP addresses

Now that you have removed these IP addresses from the `ip_address` variable, you can complete the algorithm by updating the file with this revised list. To do this, you must first convert the `ip_addresses` list back into a string using the `.join()` method. Apply `.join()` to the string `"\n"` in order to separate the elements in the file by placing them on a new line.

Then, use another `with` statement and the `.write()` method to write over the file assigned to the `import_file` variable.

Describe the Python syntax, functions, and keywords you need to accomplish this in the **Update the file with the revised list of IP addresses** section of the **Algorithm for file updates in Python** template. In the **Task 7** section of the **Create another algorithm** lab, take a screenshot of this portion of your code. Or, type this code directly into the template.

### Step 9: Finalize your document

To finalize the document and make its purpose clear to potential employers, be sure to complete the **Project description** and **Summary** sections of the **Algorithm for file updates in Python** template.

In the Project description section, give a general overview of the scenario and what you accomplished in Python. Write three to five sentences.

In the Summary section, provide a short summary of the algorithm by highlighting its main components. Write four to six sentences.

#### Pro Tip: Save a copy of your work

Finally, be sure to save a copy of your completed activity. You can use it for your professional portfolio to demonstrate your knowledge and/or experience to potential employers.

#### What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to address the following in your completed activity:

- Screenshots of your Python code or typed versions of the code
- Explanations of the syntax, functions, and keywords in the code
- A project description at the beginning
- A summary at the end
- Details on using a `with` statement and the `open()` function in your algorithm
- Details on using the `.read()` and `.write()` methods in your algorithm
- Details on using the `.split()` method in your algorithm
- Details on using a `for` loop in your algorithm
- Details on using the `.remove()` method in your algorithm

### Step 10: Assess your activity

The following is a self-assessment for your **Update a file through a Python** algorithm portfolio activity. You will use these statements to review your own work. The self-assessment process is an important part of the learning experience because it allows you to objectively assess your **Update a file through a Python algorithm** portfolio activity.

There are a total of 9 points possible for this activity and each statement is worth 1 point.

To complete the self-assessment, first open your **Update a file through a Python algorithm portfolio** activity. Then respond yes or no to each statement.

When you complete and submit your responses, you will receive a percentage score. This score will help you confirm whether you completed the required steps of the activity. The recommended passing grade for this project is at least 80% (or 8/9 points). If you want to increase your score, you can revise your project and then resubmit your responses to reflect any changes you made. Try to achieve at least 8 points before continuing on to the next course item.

## Activity Exemplar

Link to exemplar: [Update a file through a Python algorithm](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ra0_gH1l0Pd8-APMg9W_YRMG5UYqJ81ANLRPdZc2qQA/template/preview?resourcekey=0-WZDMIQTlAKDQ7yRhzf9NyA)

Compare the exemplar to your completed Python portfolio activity. Focus on its examples and explanations of Python syntax, functions, and keywords and also on how it describes the project at the beginning and summarizes it at the end.

Review your work using each of the criteria in the exemplar. What did you do well? Where can you improve? Use your answers to these questions to guide you as you continue to progress through the certificate program.

**Note**: The exemplar represents one possible way to complete the Python portfolio activity. Your project will likely differ in certain ways. What’s important is that you understand how to use Python to update the contents of a file.

# Explore debugging techniques

## Types of errors

It's a normal part of developing code in Python to get error messages or find that the code you're running isn't working as you intended. The important thing is that you can figure out how to fix errors when they occur. Understanding the three main types of errors can help. These types include syntax errors, logic errors, and exceptions.

### Syntax errors

A **syntax error** is an error that involves invalid usage of a programming language. Syntax errors occur when there is a mistake with the Python syntax itself. Common examples of syntax errors include forgetting a punctuation mark, such as a closing bracket for a list or a colon after a function header.

When you run code with syntax errors, the output will identify the location of the error with the line number and a portion of the affected code. It also describes the error. Syntax errors often begin with the label `"SyntaxError:"`. Then, this is followed by a description of the error. The description might simply be `"invalid syntax"`. Or if you forget a closing parentheses on a function, the description might be `"unexpected EOF while parsing"`. `"EOF"` stands for "end of file."

The following code contains a syntax error. Run it and examine its output:

```py
message = "You are debugging a syntax error
print(message)

# Error on line 1:
#     message = "You are debugging a syntax error
#                                               ^
# SyntaxError: EOL while scanning string literal
```

This outputs the message `"SyntaxError: EOL while scanning string literal"`. `"EOL"` stands for "end of line". The error message also indicates that the error happens on the first line. The error occurred because a quotation mark was missing at the end of the string on the first line. You can fix it by adding that quotation mark.

**Note**: You will sometimes encounter the error label `"IndentationError"` instead of `"SyntaxError"`. `"IndentationError"` is a subclass of `"SyntaxError"` that occurs when the indentation used with a line of code is not syntactically correct.

### Logic errors

A **logic error** is an error that results when the logic used in code produces unintended results. Logic errors may not produce error messages. In other words, the code will not do what you expect it to do, but it is still valid to the interpreter.

For example, using the wrong logical operator, such as a greater than or equal to sign (`>=`) instead of greater than sign (`>`) can result in a logic error. Python will not evaluate a condition as you intended. However, the code is valid, so it will run without an error message.

The following example outputs a message related to whether or not a user has reached a maximum number of five login attempts. The condition in the `if` statement should be `login_attempts < 5`, but it is written as `login_attempts >= 5`. A value of `5` has been assigned to `login_attempts` so that you can explore what it outputs in that instance:

```py
login_attempts = 5
if login_attempts >= 5:
    print("User has not reached maximum number of login attempts.")
else:
    print("User has reached maximum number of login attempts.")

# User has not reached maximum number of login attempts.
```

The output displays the message `"User has not reached maximum number of login attempts."` However, this is not true since the maximum number of login attempts is five. This is a logic error.

Logic errors can also result when you assign the wrong value in a condition or when a mistake with indentation means that a line of code executes in a way that was not planned.

### Exceptions

An **exception** is an error that involves code that cannot be executed even though it is syntactically correct. This happens for a variety of reasons.

One common cause of an exception is when the code includes a variable that hasn't been assigned or a function that hasn't been defined. In this case, your output will include `"NameError"` to indicate that this is a name error. After you run the following code, use the error message to determine which variable was not assigned:

```py
username = "elarson"
month = "March"
total_logins = 75
failed_logins = 18
print("Login report for", username, "in", month)
print("Total logins:", total_logins)
print("Failed logins:", failed_logins)
print("Unusual logins:", unusual_logins)

# Error on line 8:
#     print("Unusual logins:", unusual_logins)
# NameError: name 'unusual_logins' is not defined
```

The output indicates there is a `"NameError"` involving the `unusual_logins` variable. You can fix this by assigning this variable a value.

In addition to name errors, the following messages are output for other types of exceptions:

- `"IndexError"`: An index error occurs when you place an index in bracket notation that does not exist in the sequence being referenced. For example, in the list usernames = `["bmoreno", "tshah", "elarson"]`, the indices are `0`, `1`, and `2`. If you referenced this list with the statement `print(usernames[3])`, this would result in an index error.
- `"TypeError"`: A type error results from using the wrong data type. For example, if you tried to perform a mathematical calculation by adding a string value to an integer, you would get a type error.
- `"FileNotFound"`: A file not found error occurs when you try to open a file that does not exist in the specified location.

## Debugging strategies

Keep in mind that if you have multiple errors, the Python interpreter will output error messages one at a time, starting with the first error it encounters. After you fix that error and run the code again, the interpreter will output another message for the next syntax error or exception it encounters.

When dealing with syntax errors, the error messages you receive in the output will generally help you fix the error. However, with logic errors and exceptions, additional strategies may be needed.

### Debuggers

In this course, you have been running code in a notebook environment. However, you may write Python code in an Integrated Development Environment (IDE). An **Integrated Development Environment (IDE)** is a software application for writing code that provides editing assistance and error correction tools. Many IDEs offer error detection tools in the form of a debugger. A **debugger** is a software tool that helps to locate the source of an error and assess its causes.

In cases when you can't find the line of code that is causing the issue, debuggers help you narrow down the source of the error in your program. They do this by working with breakpoints. Breakpoints are markers placed on certain lines of executable code that indicate which sections of code should run when debugging.

Some debuggers also have a feature that allows you to check the values stored in variables as they change throughout your code. This is especially helpful for logic errors so that you can locate where variable values have unintentionally changed.

### Use print statements

Another debugging strategy is to incorporate temporary print statements that are designed to identify the source of the error. You should strategically incorporate these print statements to print at various locations in the code. You can specify line numbers as well as descriptive text about the location.

For example, you may have code that is intended to add new users to an approved list and then display the approved list. The code should not add users that are already on the approved list. If you analyze the output of this code after you run it, you will realize that there is a logic error:

```py
new_users = ["sgilmore", "bmoreno"]
approved_users = ["bmoreno", "tshah", "elarson"]
def add_users():
    for user in new_users:
        if user in approved_users:
            print(user,"already in list")
        approved_users.append(user)
add_users()
print(approved_users)

# bmoreno already in list
# ['bmoreno', 'tshah', 'elarson', 'sgilmore', 'bmoreno']
```

Even though you get the message `"bmoreno already in list"`, a second instance of `"bmoreno"` is added to the list. In the following code, print statements have been added to the code. When you run it, you can examine what prints:

```py
new_users = ["sgilmore", "bmoreno"]
approved_users = ["bmoreno", "tshah", "elarson"]
def add_users():
    for user in new_users:
        print("line 5 - inside for loop")
        if user in approved_users:
            print("line 7 - inside if statement")
            print(user,"already in list")
        print("line 9 - before .append method")
        approved_users.append(user)
add_users()
print(approved_users)

# line 5 - inside for loop
# line 9 - before .append method
# line 5 - inside for loop
# line 7 - inside if statement
# bmoreno already in list
# line 9 - before .append method
# ['bmoreno', 'tshah', 'elarson', 'sgilmore', 'bmoreno']
```

The print statement `"line 5 - inside for loop"` outputs twice, indicating that Python has entered the `for` loop for each username in `new_users`. This is as expected. Additionally, the print statement `"line 7 - inside if statement"` only outputs once, and this is also as expected because only one of these usernames was already in `approved_users`.

However, the print statement `"line 9 - before .append method"` outputs twice. This means the code calls the `.append()` method for both usernames even though one is already in `approved_users`. This helps isolate the logic error to this area. This can help you realize that the line of code `approved_users.append(user)` should be the body of an `else` statement so that it only executes when `user` is not in `approved_users`.

# Quiz: Module 4 Challenge

## Questions

1. What is debugging?
   1. The practice of identifying and fixing errors in code.
   2. The practice of improving code efficiency.
   3. The practice of calling a function from multiple places in a larger program
   4. The practice of improving code readability.
2. The purpose of the following code is to print the numbers from 0 to 9. Run this code, analyze its output, and then debug it. (If you want to undo your changes to the code, you can click the Reset button.) How can you fix the error?

```py
count = 0
while count < 10
    print("number", count)
    count = count + 1
```

   1. Add a missing colon (`:`)
   2. Change indentation
   3. Remove the quotation marks around `number`
   4. Spell a variable correctly
3. The purpose of the following code is to iterate through a list and print a warning message if it finds `"user3"` in the list. Run this code, analyze its output, and debug it. (If you want to undo your changes to the code, you can click the Reset button.) How can you fix the error?

```py
list = ["user1", "user2", "user3", "user4"]
for user in list:
    if user != "user3":
        print("Warning: user3 should not access the system.")
```

   1. Change the indentation so that the line that prints the warning is not indented.
   2. Change `"user3"` to `"user2"` in the conditional.
   3. Change `"user3"` to `"user1"` in the conditional.
   4. Change the `!=` operator to the `==` operator in the conditional.
4. You did not define a function before calling it. What type of error is this?
   1. Exception
   2. Syntax error
   3. Index out of bounds
   4. Logic error
5. If you know there is a logic error somewhere inside a function, how can you figure out the exact location?
   1. Delete the function from the program
   2. Write comments in and around the function
   3. Place print statements in and around the function
   4. Move the function to another location
6. Which of these functions or arguments should you include in a with statement if you want Python to open a file called access.txt so that it can be read? Select three answers.
   1. `open()`
   2. `read()`
   3. `"access.txt"`
   4. `"r"`
7. The `logins` variable is a string containing 20 device IDs. The device IDs are separated by spaces. In order to pass it into a function that checks the login count of each device, the string should be divided into a list of separate IDs. How do you convert this string into a list and store it in a `device_ids` variable?
   1. `logins.split() as device_ids`
   2. `device_ids = logins.split()`
   3. `device_ids = device_ids.split(logins)`
   4. `device_ids = split(device_ids, logins)`
8. Fill in the blank: If you use the .split() method to convert a string into a list so that it can be read more easily, this would be an example of **\_**.
   1. dividing
   2. slicing
   3. parsing
   4. debugging
9.  After you’ve opened a log file as `file`, which line of code will help you read the file into a variable called `text`?
   1. `text = file.read()`
   2. `text.read(file)`
   3. `text = read(file, "r")`
   4. `text = read(file)`
10. You want to check for unusual login activity. Specifically, you want to read a log file that contains information on each login attempt, including whether it failed or was successful. You should then parse the data into a `logins` list, and then you should separate all failed log entries into a separate `failed_logins` list. If you want to automate this through Python, what would be part of your code? Select three answers.
    1. A `split()` function to split the login information into a list
    2. A counter variable to keep track of the number of failed logins
    3. An `if` statement to check if a login attempt failed
    4. A `for` loop to iterate through all items in the `logins` list

## Answers

1. 1
2. 1
3. 4
4. 1
5. 3
6. 1, 3 & 4
7. 2
8. 3
9. 1
10. 1, 3 & 4